Army Regulation 350  1 Training Army Training and Leader Development   Headquarters Department of the Army Washington, DC 10 December 2017  SUMMARY of CHANGE AR 350  1 Army Training and Leader Development This major revision, dated 10 December 2017  o Establishes training readiness standards necessary to enable training readiness reporting; provides new framework for the Training General Officer Steering Committee processes, Senior Leader Readiness Forum and Senior Enlisted Training and Leader Development Conference (chap 1). o Codifies the Deputy Chief of Staff, G  3/5/7 authority (Army Directive 2016  05) concerning Headquarters, Department of the Army level approval of all training requirements; recognizes responsibilities for U.S Army Cyber Command/2A, and U.S. Army War College (chap 2). o Codifies Army University; revises sections on student dismissals, deferments, Officer Evaluation System, WOES, and noncommissioned officer evaluation system, direct commissions for medical officers, command team education; and moves Civilian Education from chapter 3 to establish a new  chapter 4. Highlights the new Select-Train-Education-Promote enlisted career management process; Renames WOES professional military education course names and requirements; updates U.S. Army Medical Department Direct Commission Course training requirements; established new framework for Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development System, to include structure self-development, Master Leader Course, and Nominative Leaders Course; updates throughout Civilian Education System sections (chap 3). o Changes from training in units to Army Civilian education (chap 4). o Changes from Training Support System to training in units (chap 5). o Changes from Army Modernization Training to Training Support Systems (chap 6). o Changes from Army Distributed Learning Program to Army Modernization Training (chap 7). o Changes from Army Modernization Training to the Army Distributed Learning Program (chap 8). o Establishes guidance for culture and language (chap 9). o Rewrites and establishes unit training record in addition to the existing individual training record (app F). o Rewrites and merges previously constructed tables G  1, G2, and G 3 together to consolidate Headquarters, Department of the Army common mandatory requirements, and established a new table F  2 to set conditions for future Deputy Chief of Staff, G  3/5/7 publications; re-characterizes selected topic to be accomplished as commander responsibilities (app F). o Authorizes Army command, Army service component command, and direct reporting unit to develop supplemental guidance in order to provide a single source for training and education requirements across their commands (throughout). o Authorizes Army command, Army service component command, and direct reporting unit level organizations to supplement AR 350  1 when additional command directed requirements are established in order to provide a single source for training and education requirements and guidance across the command (throughout). o Eliminates DA Form 5286 (Individual Basic Training (BT), Advanced Individual Training (AIT), One Station Unit training (OSUT)) and DA Form 5286  1 Continuation sheet (Basic Training, Advanced Individual Training, One Station Unit Training) (throughout). o Incorporates guidance from AD 2015-30 (Professional Military Education, Leader Development and Talent Management for Warrant Officers), AD 2016-05 (Building Training), AD 2017-13 (Department of the Army Senior Enterprise Talent Management Program and Enterprise Talent Program), and AD 2017-14 (Department of the Army Emerging Enterprise Leader Development Program) (throughout). o Supersedes AD 2011  02 (Initial Entry Training for Prior Service Personnel) and AD 2012  21 (Optimization of Intermediate-Level Education) (throughout). Headquarters Department of the Army Washington, DC   10 December 2017  *Army Regulation 350  1Effective 13 December 2017  Training Army Training and Leader Development C:\Users\tandycr\Desktop\Milley-Okeefe Authentication.pngHistory. This publication is a major revi-sion.Summary. This regulation consolidates policy and guidance for Army training and leader development and supports Army de-cisive actions in unified land operations.Applicability. This regulation applies to the Regular Army, the Army National Guard/Army National Guard of the United States, and the U.S. Army Reserve, unless otherwise stated, and is compliant with Army Total Force Policy. It also applies to Department of the Army Civilian employ-ees. During mobilization, the proponent may modify the policies and procedures contained in this regulation provided that the modification is coordinated with and concurred with by the Administrative As-sistant to the Secretary of the Army and that the modification is disseminated through the Administrative Assistant to the Secre-tary of the Army.Proponent and exception authority.The proponent of this regulation is the Dep-uty Chief of Staff, G  3/5/7. The proponent has the authority to approve exceptions or waivers to this regulation that are consistent with controlling law and regulations. The proponent may delegate this approval au-thority, in writing, to a division chief within the proponent agency or its direct reporting unit or field operating agency, in the rank of colonel or the civilian equivalent. Activities may request a waiver to this regulation by providing justification that includes a full analysis of the expected benefits and must include formal review by the activitys sen-ior legal officer. All waiver requests will be endorsed by the commander or senior leader of the requesting activity and for-warded through their higher headquarters to the policy proponent. Refer to AR 25  30 for specific guidance.Army internal control process. This regulation contains internal control provi-sions in accordance with AR 11  2 and identifies key internal controls that must be evaluated (see appendix J).Supplementation. Supplementation of this regulation and establishment of com-mand and local forms are prohibited with-out prior approval from the Deputy Chief of Staff, G  3/5/7 (DAMO  TR), 450 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC  20310  0450. Supplementation of this regulation is au-thorized at the Army command, Army ser-vice component command, and direct re-porting unit level when additional com-mand directed requirements are established in order to provide a single source for train-ing and education requirements and guid-ance across the command. Establishment of command and local forms are prohibited without prior approval from the Deputy Chief of Staff, G  3/5/7 (DAMO  TR), Washington, DC 20310  0450. Suggested improvements. Users are invited to send comments or suggested im-provements on DA Form 2028 (Recom-mended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms) directly to the Deputy Chief of Staff, G  3/5/7 (DAMO  TR), 450 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  0450. Committee continuance approval.AR 15  39 requires the proponent to justify establishing / continuing committee(s), co-ordinate draft publications, and coordinate changes in committee status with the Office of the Administrative Assistant to the Sec-retary of the Army, Analysis and Integra-tion Cell (AAAI  CL), 105 Pentagon, Washington DC 20310  0105. Further, if it is determined that an established group identified within this regulation later takes on the characteristics of a committee as found in AR 15  39, then the proponent will follow AR 15  39 requirements for estab-lishing and continuing the group as a com-mittee.Distribution. This publication is availa-ble in electronic media only and is intended for command levels C, D, and E for the Regular Army, the Army National Guard/Army National Guard of the United States, and the U.S. Army Reserve.Contents (Listed by paragraph and page number) Chapter 1 Introduction, page 1 Section I Overview, page 1 Purpose  1  1, page 1 References  1  2, page 1 Explanation of abbreviations and terms  1  3, page 1 Responsibilities  1  4, page Section II Army Mission and Sustaining Training Readiness, page 1 Unit Training Readiness  1  5, page 1 Unit readiness priorities affecting training and leader development  1  6, page 1 Army Force Generation  1  7, page 2 Section III Goals of Army Training and Leader Development, page 2 The training challenge  1  8, page 2 Strategies that support training and leader development  1  9, page 2 Army training and leader development  1  10, page 2 Training domains  1  11, page 3 Section IV Army Training and Leader Development Processes, page 5 The Army Training System  1  12, page 5 Authorities and responsibilities for training  1  13, page 5 The Army training management process  1  14, page 6 Training Support System  1  15, page 7 Leader development  1  16, page 7 Training standardization  1  17, page 8 Conducting training in units and schools  1  18, page 10 Managing training in units  1  19, page 10 Managing training in Army schools  1  20, page 11 Section V Army Training Programs, page 12 Oversight of Army training programs  1  21, page 12 Physical readiness training  1  22, page 12 The Combat Training Center Program  1  23, page 13 Section VI Training and Education Schools, page 13 The Army School System  1  24, page 13 One Army School System  1  25, page 13 Schools of other government organizations  1  26, page 13 Inter-Service training  1  27, page 13 Chapter 2 Responsibilities, page 14 Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics and Technology)  2  1, page 14 Assistant Secretary of the Army (Installations, Energy and Environment)  2  2, page 14 Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)  2  3, page 15 Chief Information Officer/G  6  2  4, page 15 The Inspector General  2  5, page 15 Chief of Public Affairs  2  6, page 15 Chief, National Guard Bureau  2  7, page 15 Deputy Chief of Staff, G  1  2  8, page 17 Deputy Chief of Staff, G  2  2  9, page 19 Deputy Chief of Staff, G  3/5/7  2  10, page 20 Deputy Chief of Staff, G  4  2  11, page 23 Deputy Chief of Staff, G  8  2  12, page 24 Chief, Army Reserve  2  13, page 24 Chief of Engineers  2  14, page 25 The Surgeon General  2  15, page 25 Assistant Chief of Staff for Installation Management  2  16, page The Judge Advocate General  2  17, page 26 Chief of Chaplains  2  18, page 26 Provost Marshal General  2  19, page 27 Office of the Chief of Staff Army, Director, Senior Leader Development Office  2  20, page 27 Commanders of Army commands, Army service component commands, and direct reporting units  2  21, page 27 Commanding General, U.S. Army Forces Command  2  22, page 30 Commanding General, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command  2  23, page 31 Commanding General, U.S. Army Materiel Command  2  24, page 36 Commanding General, U.S. Army, Europe  2  25, page 37 Commanding General, U.S. Army Pacific  2  26, page 37 Commanding General, U. S. Army South  2  27, page 38 Commanding General, U. S. Army North  2  28, page 38 Commanding General, U.S. Army Central Command  2  29, page 38 Commanding General, U.S. Army Special Operations Command  2  30, page 39 Commanding General, U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command/Army Forces Strategic Com-mand  2  31, page 39 Commanding General, Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command  2  32, page 39 Commanding General, U.S. Army Cyber Command  2  33, page 39 Commanding General, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  2  34, page 40 Commanding General, U.S. Army Medical Command  2  35, page 40 Commanding General, U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command  2  36, page 41 Commanding General, U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command  2  37, page 41 Commanding General, U.S. Army Military District of Washington  2  38, page 41 Commanding General, Installation Management Command  2  39, page 41 Superintendent, U.S. Military Academy  2  40, page 41 Commanding General, U.S. Army Test and Evaluation Command  2  41, page 42 Director, U.S. Army Acquisition Support Center  2  42, page 42 Commandant, U.S. Army War College  2  43, page 42 Other commanders and leaders  2  44, page 42 Senior commander and garrison commander duties  2  45, page 43 Commandants, commanders and directors of Army schools, centers, and institutions  2  46, page 44 Approval responsibilities for programs of instruction/courses at special schools  2  47, page 45 Chapter 3 The Army Institutional Training and Education System, page 46 Section I Introduction, page 46 Description  3  1, page 46 One Army School System  3  2, page 46 The Army School System  3  3, page 46 Army training and education proponents  3  4, page 48 Section II Administration, page 48 Army Quality Assurance Program requirements  3  5, page 48 Course information  3  6, page 49 Conduct of Training and Training locations  3  7, page 50 Headquarters, Department of the Army mandatory training in institutions  3  8, page 50 Conduct of instruction  3  9, page 50 Eligibility  3  10, page 51 Incurred obligations  3  11, page 52 Selection of Soldiers and Army Civilians for training and education  3  12, page 53 Physical readiness and height and weight requirements for military institutional training  3  13, page 55 Physical profiles  3  14, page 57 Student dismissal  3  15, page Removal from course consideration or selection lists  3  16, page 60 Deferment  3  17, page 61 Declinations  3  18, page 62 Officer and noncommissioned officer professional military education backlog definitions  3  19, page 62 Course credit  3  20, page 63 Operational Credit Program  3  21, page 64 Early release and/or early graduation from the Officer Education System and/or noncommissioned Officer Education System courses and schools  3  22, page 65 Education and training evaluation  3  23, page 66 Student education and training records  3  24, page 66 Documentation of course/training completion  3  25, page 66 Academic evaluation report  3  26, page 67 Section III Initial Military Training, page 67 Initial military training  3  27, page 67 Initial entry training for prior Service (enlisted personnel only)  3  28, page 69 Section IV Officer Training and Education, page 70 The Officer Education System  3  29, page 70 Warrant officer education requirements  3  30, page 71 Officer education requirements  3  31, page 71 Precommissioning and/or pre-appointment programs  3  32, page 72 Basic Officer Leadership Course phases A (precommissioning) and B (Branch)  3  33, page 72 Mid-grade learning continuum  3  34, page 73 Warrant Officer Advanced Course  3  35, page 74 Captains career courses  3  36, page 74 Intermediate level education  3  37, page 75 Warrant Officer Intermediate Level Education  3  38, page 75 The Army Command and General Staff College  3  39, page 75 Advanced Military Studies Program  3  40, page 78 Command Team and Key Billet Training and Education  3  41, page 79 Senior Service Education  3  42, page 82 Warrant Officer Senior Service Education  3  43, page 82 Senior service colleges  3  44, page 82 U.S. Army War College  3  45, page 82 Army War College Fellowship Program  3  46, page 84 Chief of Staff, Army Fellowship Program  3  47, page 84 Advanced Strategic Leadership Studies Program  3  48, page 84 Schools of Other Nations  3  49, page 85 General officer education and training  3  50, page 86 Section V Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development System Guidance, page 88 Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development System  3  51, page 88 Noncommissioned Officer Education System  3  52, page 89 Noncommissioned Officer Education System requirements  3  53, page 89 Structured self-development  3  54, page 90 Noncommissioned officer academies  3  55, page 91 Basic Leader Course  3  56, page 91 Advanced Leader Course  3  57, page 92 Senior Leader Course  3  58, page 92 Master Leader Course  3  59, page 92 Sergeants Major Leader Course  3  60, page 92 Nominative Leader Course  3  61, page Command Sergeant Major Brigade and Battalion Pre-Command Course and Command Sergeant Major Development Program  3  62, page 93 Section VI Military Functional, Specialty and Other Training, page 94 Military functional area and skill training  3  63, page 94 Ranger training  3  64, page 94 Airborne training  3  65, page 95 Equal opportunity management training  3  66, page 95 Battle Staff Noncommissioned Officer Course  3  67, page 95 Advanced Strategic Planning and Policy Program  3  68, page 95 Joint professional military education and training institutions  3  69, page 96 Chapter 4 Civilian Training, Education and Development, page 96 Section I Civilian Training, Education and Development, page 96 Training and Developing the Army Civilian Corps  4  1, page 96 Section II Civilian Education, page 97 Civilian Leader Development  4  2, page 97 The Civilian Education System  4  3, page 97 Foundation Course  4  4, page 98 Basic Course  4  5, page 98 Intermediate Course  4  6, page 98 Advanced Course  4  7, page 98 Selection priority attendance at resident training  4  8, page 99 Eligibility for resident training  4  9, page 99 Continuing Education for Senior Leaders  4  10, page 99 Section III Supervisor Development Course, page 99 Mandatory supervisory training for Army Civilian and military supervisors  4  11, page 99 Executive Level-Supervisor Development Course  4  12, page 99 Section IV Online Course, page 100 Action Officer Development Course  4  13, page 100 Manager Development Course  4  14, page 100 Section V Competitive Professional Development, page 100 Competitive Professional Development  4  15, page 100 Senior Enterprise Talent Management Program  4  16, page 101 Academic degree training  4  17, page 104 Army Congressional Fellowship Program  4  18, page 105 Leadership for a Democratic Society at the Federal Executive Institute  4  19, page 106 Harvard University Program for Senior Executive Fellows  4  20, page 106 Senior Manager Course in National Security Leadership  4  21, page 107 Senior Leader Seminar: Senior Leader Development Course  4  22, page 107 Section VI Senior Executive Service Education, page 108 Senior Executive Service Education, Training and Development  4  23, page 108 Highly-qualified experts  4  24, page Section VII Records, Responsibilities Resources and Process, page 109 Training records and documentation  4  25, page 109 Supervisors and managers  4  26, page 110 Resourcing Army Civilian training  4  27, page 110 Authorized training expenses  4  28, page 110 Repayment of training expenses  4  29, page 111 Continued service agreement  4  30, page 111 Outside the continental United States training for employees stationed in the continental United States  4  31, page 112 Non-Government training sources  4  32, page 113 Prohibited practices  4  33, page 113 Training during the duty day  4  34, page 113 Conferences and workshops  4  35, page 114 Credentials and certifications  4  36, page 114 Contract training courses  4  37, page 114 Sabbaticals  4  38, page 115 Exception to Army Civilian training policy requests  4  39, page 115 Chapter 5 Training in Units and Organizations, page 115 Section I Training and Leader Development in Units, page 115 General policy  5  1, page 115 Section II Planning Unit Training, page 117 Training Readiness  5  2, page 117 Assessments and evaluations of performance  5  3, page 118 Recording military training  5  4, page 118 Headquarters, Department of the Army Mandatory training in units  5  5, page 119 Collective training-terms of reference  5  6, page 119 Predeployment and redeployment training requirements  5  7, page 119 Section III Leader Development in Units, page 120 Leader development in units  5  8, page 120 Officer professional development  5  9, page 120 Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development Program  5  10, page 120 Sergeants training time  5  11, page 121 Airborne training in units  5  12, page 121 Troop schools training  5  13, page 122 Chapter 6 Training Support System, page 123 Purpose  6  1, page 123 Training support system programs  6  2, page 123 Training Support System Products, Services, and Facilities  6  3, page 124 Training Support System organizations  6  4, page 125 Training Support System Management  6  5, page 125 Training Aids, Devices, Simulators, and Simulations sustainment and maintenance  6  6, page 125 Training Support System metrics and capability assessment  6  7, page 125 Chapter 7 Army Modernization Training, page 126 Section I Introduction, page 126 Policies and procedures  7  1, page 126 Army modernization by unit sets  7  2, page 126 Total package fielding  7  3, page 127 Rapid acquisition, fielding and testing  7  4, page 127 Acquisition of training support  7  5, page 127 General acquisition objectives for training  7  6, page 127 Required training and training support  7  7, page 128 Provision of training and training support  7  8, page 129 Training developer determines requirements for new equipment training and doctrine and tactics training  7  9, page 132 Section II New Equipment Training, page 132 New equipment training objective  7  10, page 132 New equipment training policy  7  11, page 132 Planning for new equipment training  7  12, page 132 New equipment training planning considerations  7  13, page 133 Contractual requirements  7  14, page 134 Developing training support components  7  15, page 134 Conducting new equipment training  7  16, page 134 Termination of new equipment training  7  17, page 135 Funding for new equipment training  7  18, page 136 New equipment training documentation  7  19, page 136 Agencies requiring new equipment training  7  20, page 136 Reserve Component considerations  7  21, page 137 Section III Displaced equipment, page 138 Displaced equipment training determination  7  22, page 138 Reserve Component displaced equipment determination  7  23, page 138 Section IV Doctrine and Tactics Training, page 138 Doctrine and tactics training summary  7  24, page 138 Doctrine and tactics training policy  7  25, page 138 Planning for doctrine and tactics training  7  26, page 138 Sustainment training coordination  7  27, page 139 Sustainment training policy  7  28, page 139 Sustainment training planning and execution  7  29, page 139 Chapter 8 The Army Distributed Learning Program, page 139 Section I Introduction, page 139 Description  8  1, page 139 General  8  2, page 139 Training and education through distributed learning  8  3, page 140 Distributed Learning courses  8  4, page 140 Army e-Learning  8  5, page 141 Section II Developing and Implementing Distributed Learning, page 141 Distributed learning governance; approval process for distributed learning courseware development  8  6, page 141 Distributed learning development prioritization  8  7, page 142 Distributed learning implementation  8  8, page 142 Course information  8  9, page Training  8  10, page 143 Eligibility  8  11, page 143 Selection and enrollment  8  12, page 143 Compensation of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve personnel for electronic-based distributed learn-ing  8  13, page 144 Course credit  8  14, page 146 Student dismissal  8  15, page 146 Chapter 9 Culture and Language, page 146 Section I Introduction, page 146 Purpose  9  1, page 146 References  9  2, page 147 Cultural capability, regional expertise, and language proficiency  9  3, page 147 Training categories  9  4, page 147 Section II Cultural Capability and Regional Expertise, page 147 Responsibilities  9  5, page 147 Terms  9  6, page 148 Cultural capability levels  9  7, page 148 Cultural capability evaluation  9  8, page 148 Cultural training domains  9  9, page 148 Section III Language Proficiency, page 149 Responsibilities  9  10, page 149 Language training domains  9  11, page 149 Language education and training documentation  9  12, page 151 Appendixes A. References, page 152 B. Military Schools, Colleges, and Training Centers, page 162 C. Prerequisites and Service Obligation Incurred by Attendance at Foreign Military Schools, page 165 D. Noncommissioned Officer Academy Designations and Regions and Regular Army Regional Quota Manag-ers, page 168 E. Training Records, page 171 F.  Mandatory Training and Other Requirements, page 174 G. Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training, page 202 H. Constructive or Equivalent Course Credit for Officers and Army Civilians, page 204 I. . List of Reimbursable New Equipment Training Support and Services, page 209 J. . Internal Control Evaluation, page 210 Table List Table 3  2: Intermediate level education requirements for other Service assessed and Government Civilian graduates (for officers in Year Group or Commission Year 94 and subsequent year groups), page 78 Table 3  3: Army Brigade and Battalion Pre-command Course attendance policy, page 80 Table 7  1: Responsibility for Training Development and Support If Needed for the Conduct of New Equipment Train-ing/Doctrine and Tactics Training, page Table 7  2: Responsibility for Providing with Materiel Fielding the Training Support Components needed for Sustain-ment Training after any NET/DTT, page 131 Table C  1: Schools that equate to U.S. Senior Service Colleges, page 166 Table C  2: Schools that equate to Command and General Staff Officer Course, page 166 Table D  1: Noncommissioned Officer Academy regions, page 168 Table D  2: Addresses of regional quota managers, page 170 Table F  1: Headquarters, Department of the Army mandatory training requirements for all personnel (Soldiers Army Civilians and contractors) in units (including organizations, activities, agencies) and institutional environ-ments, page 175 Table F  2: Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions), page 177 Table H  1: Constructive or equivalent course credit for Officer Personnel Management Directorate-managed Regular Army commissioned officers, page 204 Table H  2: Constructive or equivalent course credit for chaplains, page 205 Table H  3: Constructive or equivalent course credit for AMEDD (MC, DC, VC, AN, MSSP) officers, page 206 Table H  4: Constructive or equivalent course credit for Judge Advocate General Corps officers, page 206 Table H  5: Constructive or equivalent course credit for Army Civilian Corps, page 207 Glossary  Chapter 1 Introduction Section I Overview 1  1.  Purpose This regulation prescribes policies, procedures, and responsibilities for developing, managing, and conducting Army train-ing and leader development. 1  2.  References See appendix A. 1  3.  Explanation of abbreviations and terms See glossary. 1  4.  Responsibilities Responsibilities are listed in chapter 2. Section II Army Mission and Sustaining Training Readiness 1  5.  Unit Training Readiness Readiness indicates our ability to fight and win our Nations wars. More specifically, it is the ability of our forces to conduct the full range of military operations to defeat all enemies regardless of the threats they pose. The Army achieves these ends through the powerful and skillful application of ready units. The means by which the Army produces "ready unit" capability is through properly manned, equipped, trained and led units. Generating the combat proficiency for deci-sive action is an Armywide enterprise that engages leaders at every level. Our tactical units must manage personnel and equipment to produce trained formations and leaders ready to execute decisive action and assigned missions, the Army service component commands (ASCCs) must ensure combatant commanders (CCDRs) receive the operational capabilities necessary to support joint requirements, and the Army must generate the strategic readiness needed by the Joint force to meet the objectives of national strategy. This process, properly executed within the intent of the Armys Total Force Policy, is the foundation upon which the Total Army Force builds the readiness and capability required to meet the challenges of a complex world now and into the future. Unit readiness is maximized when Regular Army (RA) and Reserve Component (RC) units integrate training at the tactical level (division and below); conduct pre-deployment collective training to reduce post-mobilization time; apply standard procedures for validating the predeployment readiness of RA and RC forces; and apply uniform standards for the qualification and professional development of RA and RC Soldiers. 1  6.  Unit readiness priorities affecting training and leader development Unit readiness priorities directly impacting training includes the following: a.  Continue to aggressively rebuild combined arms maneuver capability and preserve wide area security competency in support of Unified Land Operations through home station training and combat training center rotations. b.  Prioritize and protect home station training environments through disciplined tasking governance, improved man-agement of mandatory training, and reinvigorated unit training management across all echelons of command. c.  Establish a common, objective standard for assessing and reporting training readiness for decisive action, or assigned missions across the total Army force. d.  Improve personnel readiness by significantly reducing medical and administrative non-available Soldiers to maxim-ize our Armys combat power. e.  Ensure training and leader development opportunities are sustained in order to promote the technical and functional proficiency of our Soldiers and Army Civilians. 1  7.  Army Force Generation The Army is adapting its force generation process to the needs of a globally responsive and regionally engaged force operating in a strategic environment characterized by persistent forward presence, global engagement, uncertain demands, and limited resources. Section III Goals of Army Training and Leader Development 1  8.  The training challenge The Armys training challenge is to optimize, synchronize and support training in schools, training and education in units, and self-development training to produce forces and leaders capable of responding across the range of military operations. Internal to unit training, the greatest challenge is managing the broad number of commander responsibilities and require-ments in relation to the time available to train and conduct unit activities resulting in overall unit readiness. Prioritization of activities and requirements is imperative. Army Doctrine Publication (ADP) 7  0, Army Doctrine Resource Publication (ADRP) 7  0, and Field Manual (FM) 7  0 provide the Armys doctrinal foundation for how units train to build training readiness. Unit combined arms training strategies (CATSs) are mission essential task list (METL)-based training strategies which support readiness reporting requirements. They are designed to train a unit to perform its missions, employment, capabilities and functions and contain all the collective tasks designed to train the unit. Training events in the CATS provide recommendations of the methods that can be employed to train those tasks. Training events are often designed to suggest a progressive training path so that commanders can select the appropriate level of event difficulty to match the units level of proficiency at executing the collective tasks associated with that task set. CATS are nested crew-level to brigade combat team (BCT) or functional/multi-functional brigade, and corps, integrate DA Pam 350  38 and provide recommendations on who, what, how and the frequency to train. They provide recommendations on use of training aids, devices, simulators, and simulations (TADSS), training gates, multi-echelon training, resources and provide a base line purpose, outcome and execution guidance for each event. A unit commander has two major training responsibilities: pre-pare the unit to accomplish the as designed or assigned mission and develop Soldiers/leaders for future responsibilities. The commander will use METL-based CATS to prepare the unit to perform those missions the unit was doctrinally de-signed to execute across the range of military operations. Assignment of a deployment mission allows leaders, in dialogue with their higher headquarters commander and with guidance from the ASCC commander, to focus their training on those METL tasks that support the deployment mission. The process for METL task development for emerging tasks and as-signed missions are available in FM 7  0. 1  9.  Strategies that support training and leader development The Army has developed strategies to guide efforts to train and educate the Army and grow leaders. The Army publishes the Army Training Strategy (ATS) and Army Leader Development Strategy (ALDS). These two complementary Army strategies describe the vision, specific goals and objectives, management process, and supporting training models, guid-ance, and systems in an era of persistent conflict to prepare units and leaders for Unified Land Operations. Ultimately, Army training and leader development goals aim to rebuild strategic depth and readiness. 1  10.  Army training and leader development a.  All training, education, and leader development actions occur within the Army culture, a culture which embraces values and ethics, the Warrior Ethos, standards, and enduring principles and imperatives. Army training strategies serve to synchronize the role each training domain plays in building force readiness. b.  Training and leader development are what the Army does every day. Training builds confidence and competence, while providing essential skills and knowledge, resulting in unit readiness. Unit commanders are responsible for scheduling and conducting training. c.  Education is the structured process to impart knowledge through teaching and learning, predominantly in the Insti-tutional and Self Development Training Domains, to enable or enhance an individuals ability to perform in unknown situations. Instruction with increased knowledge, skill, and/or experience as the desired outcome for the student. This is in contrast to training, where a task or performance basis is used and specific conditions and standards are used to assess individual and unit proficiency. Education also develops the general knowledge, capabilities, and character of a Soldier or Army Civilian through exposure of learning theories, concepts, and information. Within the Institutional Domain, educa-tion is traditionally delivered by an accredited institution, and may relate to a current or future mission-related assignment. d.  Leader development is the deliberate, continuous, sequential, and progressive process - founded in Army values - that grows Soldiers and Army Civilians into competent and confident leaders capable of decisive action. Leader develop-ment is achieved through the life-long synthesis of the knowledge, skills, and experiences gained through the training and education opportunities in the institutional, operational, and self-development domains. The Army Leader Development Model, founded in doctrinal products (see ADRP 7  0/FM 6  22), portrays the interaction among three separate but over-lapping training domains (operational, institutional and self-development) that must be synchronized in order to achieve the goal of trained Soldiers, Army Civilians, leaders, and ready units. For additional information on the Army Leader Development Model, see doctrinal products (see ADRP 7  0/FM 6  22). Unit commanders are responsible for leading and managing the leader development of their Soldiers and Army Civilians. 1  11.  Training domains The Armys training and leader development efforts support training and education in the three training domains: institu-tional, operational, and self-development. Each training domain complements the other. All of the domains have an im-portant role in training Soldiers and Army Civilians, growing leaders and preparing units for employment. ADP 7  0 pro-vides further discussion on the training domains. a.  The institutional training domain.  The institutional training domain includes Army centers/schools that provide in-itial training and subsequent functional and professional military education and training for Soldiers, military leaders, and Army Civilians. Army schools ensure Soldiers, leaders, and Army Civilians can perform critical tasks to prescribed stand-ards throughout their careers, and support units on a continuous basis. Army schools help instill the Army Profession, the Army Ethic, and character development of Army professionals. The institutional training domain also provides training support products, information, and materials needed by individuals for self-development and by unit leaders in the opera-tional training domain to accomplish training and mission rehearsal/assessment. The institution is a key enabler for unit readiness, providing initial military training, reclassification/military occupational specialty (MOS)-transition, subsequent professional military education and Civilian education and direct support to units for functional training through access to training task development data bases, mobile training teams (MTTs) or other means. The institutional training domain takes lessons-learned from operational deployments and the operational training domain and updates doctrine and tactics, techniques, and procedures and then disseminates this information back to the field; or modifies institutional instruction to address gaps in learning. Army schools will (1)  Conduct initial training for Soldiers and Army Civilians that instills basic common core values, ethics reasoning, and the Soldiers Creed/Army Civilian Corps Creed; qualifies individuals on common tasks; qualifies individuals on the critical tasks of their assigned occupational specialty; and produces highly motivated and disciplined individuals. (2)  Conduct training and education that qualifies individuals for a MOS), area of concentration (AOC), additional skill identifier (ASI), skill identifier (SI), special qualification identifier (SQI), or language identification code (LIC). When required, Army schools will provide training support packages to support awarding these identifiers/codes. Similarly, Army schools provide reclassification training for changing an enlisted MOS, to qualify a warrant officer (WO) or an officer in a new branch. Reclassification training is conducted per AR 140  1, AR 614  200, and AR 611  1. (3)  Consider collaboration with public and private institutes of higher learning and industry partners in order to align institutional training to nationally recognized standards whenever possible in order to support the Army Credentialing Program. (4)  Develop individuals throughout their careers for more complex duties and progressively higher positions of respon-sibility in future assignments. (5)  Provide instruction and MTTs in specified areas requiring specialized functional expertise. (6)  Provide leader development (training and education) for all Soldiers and Army Civilians. (7)  Use the U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) in TRADOC Regulation 350  70 (Army Learning Policy and Systems process) to produce and distribute learning or training products to all Army training domains, to in-clude: (a)  Training publications that establish tasks, conditions, and standards for military occupational specialties (Soldiers Manuals) and units (CATS) and that link Army performance (Army Collective Task List ) with Joint performance (Uni-versal Joint Task List). (b)  Proponent commanders/commandants will develop individual learning plans (ILPs) to identify required courses and resources in order to align resource requirements, such as major construction, Army (MCA), with the planning, program-ming, budgeting, and execution (PPBE) budget formulation process and energize other resourcing acquisition systems. It also synchronizes the training provided in Army schools, in units, during materiel fielding, at mobilization sites, in opera-tional theaters, and through self-development. As the long-range planning document, the ILP outlines training strategies, purposes, scope, implementation milestones for related courses specific to a career management field, MOS, or AOC by functional area (FA). Assigned ASI and/or SQI are also identified with respective career management field, MOS or AOC by FA. (c)  An automated Army Training Management System (ATMS) with links to the Army Centers of Excellence (CoEs), Regional Training Centers (RTIs), the Army Training Requirements and Resources System (ATRRS), and Army lessons learned processes and the Joint Lessons learned Information System. b.  The operational training domain.  The operational training domain encompasses training activities that unit leaders schedule, and individuals, units and organizations undertake. Unit leaders are responsible for the proficiency of their sub-ordinates (Soldiers and Army Civilians), subordinate leaders, teams/crews, and the unit as a whole. For uniformed service members, the operational domain is where leaders undergo the bulk of their development. It includes deployable Army units and organizations that are designed and maintained to accomplish strategic, operational, and tactical missions. Expe-rience in the operational domain is essential for leader development. Experience enables leaders to execute mission com-mand (MC) at all levels of responsibility. It is where junior leaders achieve technical competence, mid-grade leaders further develop their ability to lead units and organizations, and senior leaders are developed to contribute to national and geo-political strategy. Leaders provide subordinate leaders with active role modeling and provide developmental feedback during training. Leaders must allow their subordinates adequate time to pursue education and self-development opportu-nities. Leader development makes an essential contribution to any units readiness to train effectively and accomplish its mission. Efficient implementation is achieved by integrating the development of leaders into day-to-day activities, relying on the quality of the relationship between leaders and those they lead to create an environment that values and empowers subordinate leaders. Leaders rank leading a unit, personal example, and mentoring as the three most effective ways their leadership qualities are developed.  Subordinate leaders assist commanders in achieving training readiness proficiency goals by ensuring training is conducted to standard in support of the Army Standard METL. These activities include: progressive training conducted at home station, regional collective training capability, regional training centers, and mo-bilization centers; Joint Pacific Multinational Readiness Capability (JPMRC) U.S. Army Pacific (USARPAC), Combat Support Training Program (CSTP) exercises (CSTX/WAREX) and Combat Training Center (CTC) rotations; during Joint exercises; and while regionally aligned or operationally deployed. The CSTP consists of three types of collective training exercises: Functional Exercises, Warrior Exercises (WAREX), Exportable Combat Training Capability (XCTC), and cul-minates with our external evaluation (EXEVAL) event, the Combat Support Training Exercise (CSTX). For the reserve component forces, the operational domain includes reserve centers, armories, and state training areas and facilities. For units in the operational Army, METL-based strategies (known as CATS) are synchronized with the weapon training strat-egy to build and sustain unit readiness. These documents describe training resources and training support requirements to execute the training models. Commanders are responsible for unit readiness. c.  Self-development training domain.  The self-development domain includes planned and goal-oriented learning that reinforces and expands the depth and breadth of an individuals knowledge base and self-awareness. Self-development bridges learning gaps between the operational and institutional domains and sets conditions for continuous learning and growth. Required conditions in the self-development domain follow life-long learning models. An individual must develop a personal commitment to gain knowledge and to learn. Ideally, there should be few or no boundaries regarding topics of personal and professional interest. The Army must continue to make appropriate resources available that are meaningful, engaging to use, and accessible when needed and as needed. Leaders must limit their desire to direct subordinates to pursue specific fields of study for self-development, and then encourage and expect that subordinates seek knowledge on a topic or field of study that interests them. Self-development will complement what has been learned in the classroom and on the job, enhance professional competence, and help meet personal objectives. There are three types of self-development: (1)  Structured self-development.  Learning that continues throughout a career and that is closely linked to and synchro-nized with classroom and on-the-job learning. (2)  Guided self-development.  Recommended but optional learning that will help keep personnel prepared for changing technical, functional, and leadership responsibilities throughout their career. (3)  Personal self-development.  Self-initiated learning where the individual defines the objective, pace and process, such as: pursuing college education, advanced degree programs, seeking mentoring or coaching opportunities, completing leadership or other assessments, self-initiated credentialing opportunities, etc. d.  Leader development and tracking across training domains.  The success of self-development is tied to defined goals, regular self-assessment, performance feedback and greater overall self-awareness. (1)  Individuals must regularly conduct honest assessments of their strengths and weaknesses. First line leaders must regularly provide feedback on performance and assist individuals in establishing/refining an individual development plan (IDP) to guide performance improvement. (2)  The professional development model is available at https://actnow.army.mil, or https://ile.atsc.army.mil/pdmpub-lic/pdm.html. (3)  IPD Management (enlisted, officer, Army Civilian). (4)  The self-development training domain must be a robust component of the professional development model provid-ing every Soldier and Army Civilian a clear understanding of what success looks like. (5)  Each Soldiers Army Career Tracker record should be updated no later than 30 days upon arrival at the first unit of assignment. (a)  Army Career Tracker provides a means to create an integrated approach that synchronizes development across all learning domains; provide individual assessment and feedback capabilities; and, allow each Soldier or Civilian to collec-tively view Army training, experiential learning and education data from a single interface that provides a common training picture as well as their life-long learning strategy. (b)  Army Career Tracker is a leader development tool that integrates training, education, and experiential learning into one personalized and easy-to-use interface. Army Career Tracker provides users with a more efficient and effective way to monitor their career development while allowing leaders to track and advise subordinates on personalized leadership development. Section IV Army Training and Leader Development Processes 1  12.  The Army Training System The Army training domains and training support systems (TSSs) comprise of a system of systems that prepares RA / RC Soldiers, Army Civilians, leaders, and organizations to conduct Unified Land Operations. To support the training domains it will a.  Provide Army school-trained Soldiers, Army Civilians, and leaders who possess sound fundamentals of their military or civilian specialty. Leaders have the responsibility to develop Soldiers and Army Civilians to achieve success on assigned missions. Leaders are also responsible for developing subordinates for future assignments that might hold increasing re-sponsibilities. b.  Publish how-to-fight doctrine that provides the basis for effective, unified action. c.  Provide training support products that enable leaders to plan, prepare, execute and assess training to standard. d.  Provide training activities through CTC that expose units to subject matter expertise. e.  Provide resources, including synchronizing of training assets and activities, needed to execute training activities. f.  Provide a TSS and Army training management system needed by the unit to plan, execute, and evaluate training and mission rehearsals and to assess operations and capture lessons learned. g.  Leverage organizational approaches for integrating RA/RC units to meet current and contingency demands. 1  13.  Authorities and responsibilities for training a.  Training is an administrative control authority of the Army.  In accordance with Title 10, United States Code, Section  3013(b)(5) (10 USC 3013(b)(5)), the Secretary of the Army (SECARMY) is responsible for training all Army forces, including those assigned to combatant commands (CCMD). Unit commanders are responsible for the training proficiency of their unit, and when required, for certifying training readiness by unit and echelon. Training readiness standards include individual/crew-served/platform weapon qualification, live-fire task proficiency,  mission essential task proficiency, and an EXEVAL. Next higher headquarter commanders are responsible for confirming that training has been conducted to standard and within prescribed time periods. The Army commands (ACOMs), Army service component commands (ASCCs), and direct reporting units (DRUs) that provide forces for operational employment by a CCDR will confirm units meet established Army deployment and employment criteria; and the respective ASCC (for ASCC/CCDR assigned con-ventional forces) and U.S. Army Forces Command (FORSCOM) (for unassigned RA and RC conventional forces) will validate that those forces meet training prerequisites before deployment. Unless otherwise directed by the Secretary of Defense, CCDRs may employ RC Army forces assigned to their commands in contingency operations only when validated by the Army force provider. Validation is not required for training, to include ODT and SPP, unless designated as high risk or sensitive by the requesting command. b.  Training and readiness oversight.  In contrast to the training validation responsibility of Army commanders, training and readiness oversight describes the limited authority of CCDRs over assigned RC forces when not on active duty or when on active duty training (ADT) status. CCDRs normally exercise training and readiness oversight through their Ser-vice Component commanders and FORSCOM. The training and readiness oversight provides the authority to provide guidance on operational requirements and priorities to be addressed in military department training and readiness pro-grams, approve participation by assigned RC forces in Joint training, review readiness inspections of assigned RC forces, review mobilization plans (including post-mobilization training activities and deployability validation procedures) devel-oped for assigned RC forces, and comment on service program recommendations and budget requests. 1  14.  The Army training management process The Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS), G  3/5/7 manages Army training primarily through the Training General Officer Steering Committee (TGOSC). a.  Structure.  The TGOSC provides governance for the training enterprise and recommends improvements in training policy and strategy, resourcing and capabilities needed to provide trained and ready Soldiers, leaders, Army Civilians and units to the unified Forces of CCDRs. The TGOSC ensures Army training domains (operational, institutional and self-development) and the TSS can sustain requisite readiness of Soldiers, leaders, Army Civilians and units, and can support Army and DOD. The TGOSC identifies and resolves issues, determines priorities, and makes decisions in support of Army Training and Leader Development in order to develop synchronized and integrated strategic recommendations for the Chief of Staff of the Army (CSA) in support of Training and Army Readiness. (1)  The DCS, G  3/5/7 chairs the TGOSC, with the Director of Training (DOT) or Deputy Director of Training (DDOT) serving as chair if the G  3/5/7 is absent. The DCS, G  3/5/7 (Director of Training) and the DCS, G  1, Director of Military Personnel Management, represent the Army Staff (ARSTAF) as voting members; other ARSTAF may be invited. (2)  Primary TGOSC members are also voting members and include general officers or Senior Executive Service (SES) members from each Army command (ACOM), ASCC, DRU, Army National Guard (ARNG), and USAR who are respon-sible for training, education and leader development. The TGOSC chair may invite other Headquarters, Department of the Army (HQDA) and Joint Staff general officers or SES to attend based on the issues being presented. (3)  Generally, each 1  2 star TGOSC is followed by a 3-star TGOSC video teleconference (VTC) to address key emerg-ing or contentious topics that cannot be resolved at the 1  2 star TGOSC. The 3-star TGOSC provides a back brief to the Army senior leaders concerning the outcome from the TGOSC cycle. b.  Meeting frequency.  The TGOSC meets quarterly (or as required) to identify and resolve issues, determine priorities, and make decisions in support of Army Training and Leader Development to provide synchronized and integrated strategic recommendations to Army senior leaders. A number of CoC, and subordinate workgroups, committees and boards support the TGOSC to develop and frame training-related issues for Army leaders decision. c.  Purpose.  The TGOSC forwards recommendations through DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate) for decision by the appropriate Army leaders (DCS, G  3/5/7; Vice Chief of Staff of the Army (VCSA); CSA; Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (ASA (M&RA)); and SECARMY. All TGOSC recommendations will consider policy implications, impact if not adopted, general resource requirements, and general priority in relationship to other Army training and leader development initiatives. (1)  The Fall TGOSC has a two-fold purpose: First, to provide comprehensive guidance to the Training Program Eval-uation Group (TT PEG) in order to shape the program objective memorandum (POM) plan to maximize training balance and readiness. Second, to incorporate key stakeholder input to provide the opportunity to prioritize their requirements. Key inputs include the Short Range Training Requirements Analysis (SRTRA); Non-Standard Training Devices (NSTD); Stra-tegic Portfolio Analysis Review (SPAR); Structure Manning Decision Review (SMDR); Execution Assessment; Senior Leader Readiness Forum (SLRF) Task status; the Army Profession and Leader Development Forum (APLDF) initiatives and the Army Leader Development Program Priority List (APL); and by exception, directed requirements. A Combined CoC and associated Integration Forum precedes the Fall TGOSC. Key outputs include a balanced TT PEG assessment and prioritization and an updated CTC Huddle Agenda. The Fall TGOSC is targeted to occur annually not later than 15 No-vember. (2)  The Winter TGOSC has a two-fold purpose: First, to provide the adjusted POM Plan in order to review and approve PEG balance and risk. Second, to build and influence mid-year review (MYR) for the current fiscal year (FY). Key inputs include the PEG Guidance Adjustment, Commanders Program Assessment Concerns. The Combined council of colonels (COC) and Integration Forum will precede the Winter TGOSC. Key outputs include the Adjusted POM Plan and Technical Guidance Memorandum (TGM) Shaping guidance. The Winter TGOSC is targeted to occur annually not later than 28 February. (3)  The Spring TGOSC has a two-fold purpose: Review the MYR for the current fiscal year in order to identify and attempt to mitigate risk; and shape new initiatives for future decision in order to examine and assess initiatives. The Com-bined CoC and associated Integration Forum will precede the Spring TGOSC. Key outputs include the Mid-year Review (MYR), Way Ahead and Prioritization; SLRF Agenda; and Decision Point for Summer TGOSC. The Spring TGOSC is targeted to occur annually NLT 30 May. (4)  The Summer TGOSC has a three-fold purpose: Assess the next FY budget for balance and risk and to gain under-standing of immediate risk and resource challenges; assess the upcoming Budget Estimation Submission (BES) (first year of preceding POM) in order to gain understanding of upcoming risk and resource challenges; and confirm new initiatives for inclusion in the TT PEG guidance. The CoC and associated Integration Forum will precede the Summer TGOSC. The key output is the decision on new initiatives/policy changes. The Summer TGOSC is targeted to occur annually NLT 30 September. d.  Training General Officer Steering Committee Integration Forum.  The Integration Forums primary function is to prepare the TGOSC agenda by integrating supporting CoCs and working group recommendations forwarded by the sup-porting CoCs and working groups and to ensure the presentations of recommendations are in the context of an Army-wide training and leader development requirement. The DCS, G  3/5/7 Assistant Director of Training, or designated colonel/gen-eral schedule (GS) 15 level representative chairs the Integration Forum. Integration Forum participants consist of the DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate) Colonel/GS  15 chairs from each of the supporting COCs and TGOSC working groups. The DCS, G  3/5/7 Assistant Director of Training may invite ACOM, ASCC, DRU, ARNG, USAR, selected Army Staff, and other representatives (subject matter experts) when needed. e.  Training General Officer Steering Committee  supporting council of colonels and working groups. The TGOSC chair will establish and provide guidance to supporting COC, such as: Operational COC, Mission COC, Institutional COC, and TSS COC; other COC may be established as required; such as the Army Munitions requirement COC. The chair person for each COC will determine work groups as required based on TGOSC guidance, voting members for each COC and publish a charter under which they will operate (approved by the Director of Training.) f.  Senior Leader Readiness Forum.  The SLRF is an annual senior leader forum that provides the CSA the opportunity to facilitate an informative dialogue among senior commanders and Army trainers on changes necessary to support Army training and leader development policies and resourcing matters. The SLRF focuses on current and future strategic training and leader development issues for the current and future warrior leader. Primary SLRF members are general officers re-sponsible for training and leader development from each ACOM, ASCC, DRU, the ARNG, the USAR, Army Divisions, and Army Schools. g.  Senior Enlisted Training and Leader Development Conference (SETLDC).  The SETLDC is an annual senior leader conference that provides the SMA the opportunity to facilitate an informative dialogue among Command Sergeants Major and senior noncommissioned officers on changes necessary to support Talent Management, Army training and leader development policies. The SETLDC focuses on current and future strategic training and leader development issues for the current and future warrior leader.  Primary SETLDC members are senior enlisted leaders responsible for training and leader development from each ADOM, ASCC, DRU, the ARNG, the USAR, Army Divisions and Army Centers of Ex-cellence. h.  Army Profession and Leader Development Forum.  The Commanding General (CG), U.S. Army Training and Doc-trine Command (TRADOC) is vested with the authority to shape and lead efforts to develop officers, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers (NCOs), and civilians to meet our future security challenges in an increasingly uncertain and complex strategic environment. As the Army senior responsible official (SRO) for leader development, CG TRADOC leads, manages and executes the Army Leader Development Program (ALDP) whose leader development recommenda-tions are forwarded to the CSA for decision. The Leader Development SRO, or his/her designated representative leads the Army Profession and Leader Development Forum (APLDF). The APLDF membership includes ACOM, ASCC, DRU, National Guard Bureau (NGB), U.S. Army Reserve Command (USARC), HQDA staff principals, U.S. Army Human Resources Command (HRC) Commander, and other members as CG, TRADOC directs. Army Profession and Leader Development Forum members critically examine leader development initiatives and programs, discuss issues and draw upon their experience and judgment to advise the SRO. The APLD process is described in DA Pam 350  58. The APLDF may establish supporting CoC and work groups, as required. 1  15.  Training Support System The Army delivers relevant live, virtual/gaming, and constructive (LVC), training enablers through the Armys TSS prod-ucts, services, and facilities to create training conditions that realistically portray the operational environment and enable METL based operational training strategies. The TSS consists of five primary programs that complement each other and together generate the Armys TSS capability through the delivery of products, services, and facilities. The TSS programs include the Sustainable Range Program (SRP), Mission Command Training Support Program (MCTSP), CTC moderniza-tion, Training Information Infrastructure (TII), and the Soldier Training Support Program (STSP). Each TSS program will recommend, as needed, supporting functions or components that may include program policy and procedures, manpower and table of distribution and allowances (TDA) structure, modernization strategy, operations support functions and re-sources, facilities, connectivity, and management support systems. Chapter 6 provides a more detailed description of the Armys TSS, roles and responsibilities, and management structure.  1  16.  Leader development a.  Leader development is the deliberate, continuous and progressive process  founded in the Army Ethic  that devel-ops Soldiers and Army Civilians into competent, committed professional leaders of character. Leaders are developed through the career-long synthesis of the training, education, and experiences acquired through opportunities in the institu-tional, operational, and self-development domains. Leaders development is inclusive of all cohorts and components, be-ginning prior to accession and continuing until the leader leaves service. b.  Leadership, as the multiplying and unifying element of combat power and key driver of Strategic Readiness, requires a robust leader development program. Leader development ensures the Army grows Soldiers and Army Civilians who are prepared, competent, and possess leader attributes and competencies that enable them to be adaptive and capable of oper-ating across the range of military operations. The leadership assessment process (G  1) measures subordinates leadership values, attributes, skills, knowledge, and potential to lead at specific levels within the Army (see ADP/ADRP 6  22). c.  Leader development is a shared responsibility between the institutional Army (education or training institution), the operational force (organization or unit), and the individual. Leaders at all levels must place high priority on, and invest, in developing future leaders. d.  The Army is focused on developing leaders who can effectively exercise mission command and operate in complex and decentralized operational environments. To this end, leader development programs must be designed to produce and recognize leaders who have mastered the technical and tactical branch skills for mission accomplishment; are inquisitive, creative, and adaptable; and prepare leaders for exposures with, or operating with unified action partners. (1)  Army schools conduct branch, branch immaterial, and functional training that prepares individuals to lead and com-mand units and or serve as staff members at all levels within the Army. The SLDO, HRC, unit commanders, and organi-zation leaders select individuals to attend these courses in accordance with career development models. (2)  Through experience gained during operational assignments, leaders acquire the confidence, leadership, and the competence needed for more complex and higher level assignments. (3)  The leadership assessment process measures the development of a subordinates leadership competencies and at-tributes to serve at specific levels within the Army (see ADP/ADRP 6  22). The assessment process provides the basis for evaluation (periodic and formal rating of performance) and development (a continuous and informal process aimed at improving leadership potential). For both the evaluation and development assessment processes, the individuals perfor-mance is rated against established criteria, which are understood by both the individual and the commander or supervisor conducting the assessment. (4)  Self-development bridges the gaps between the operational and institutional domains and sets the conditions for continuous learning and growth. (5)  The three primary training domains are supported by several key enablers. These enablers occur across one or more domains and support the Soldiers and Army Civilians overall growth and progression. (a)  Counseling and feedback provide clear, timely, and accurate information concerning individual performance com-pared to the established criteria. As a part of the counseling and feedback session, the commander or supervisor assists the individual to identify strengths, weaknesses, and developmental needs. As part of this process, leaders will help Soldiers design an IDP, in accordance with doctrinal products (see ADP/ADRP 6  22). The IDP will assist Leaders and Soldiers with an objective approach to professional development to identify weaknesses and sustain strengths. To ensure the IDP is fully established throughout a Soldiers career, each first-term Soldier will receive an initial counseling from their first-line Leader within 30 days of arrival to their first permanent duty station, as part of the Reception and Integration Process. Leaders and Soldiers will create an IDP in Army Career Tracker and this requirement will be conducted annually until the Soldier transitions from military service. (b)  Corrective actions focus on correcting weaknesses that adversely impact on the individuals performance of current duty requirements. Reinforcement actions focus on sustaining and refining existing leadership skills and knowledge. (c)  The evaluation process officially rates an individuals past performance based on established standards. As a formal rating, evaluations are directly linked to selection for promotion, schooling, and for military only, various duty assign-ments. (d)  The selection process identifies individuals for promotion, schooling, and various duty assignments based on estab-lished criteria. e.  The Army Leader Development Strategy and FM 6  22 articulates the characteristics we desire in our Army leaders as they progress through their careers; establishes imperatives for the integration of policies, programs, and initiatives to produce Army leaders; and provides guidance for career-long development of Army leaders through education, training, and experience. Leader development instills and refines desired attributes and competencies in Soldiers and Army Civilians through an appropriate combination of formal education, experience, training, assessment, counseling and feedback, re-medial and reinforcement actions, evaluation, and selection. This integrated, progressive and sequential process occurs in schools, units, and Civilian education institutions and organizations. 1  17.  Training standardization a.  The objectives of training standardization are as follows: (1)  Ensure that organizations can operate effectively within any assigned formation. (2)  Ensure Soldiers and leaders can perform effectively within any assigned team. (3)  Ensure common understanding of expected performance when planning, directing, requesting resources, executing, and evaluating/assessing performance. b.  Performance is standardized by training to approved Army task, conditions, and standards. c.  Standard Army ratings for task proficiency are: (T) is fully trained (complete task proficiency), (T-) is trained (ad-vanced task proficiency), (P) is practiced (basic task proficiency), (P-) is marginally practiced (limited task proficiency), and (U) is untrained (cannot perform the task). These proficiency ratings are applied to the assessment of all collective tasks (to include METs, supporting collective tasks, and collective live-fire tasks). d.  The Army standard for assessing collective task proficiency is to use the task proficiency criteria matrix in the T&EO for the collective task. The task proficiency criteria matrix consists of the following fields, (operational environment vari-ables, percent of unit present at training, external evaluation, and performance measures) and provides a framework for assessing task proficiency when a unit performs a collective task. T&EOs will contain a task evaluation criteria matrix for each task on unit METL and be accessible to units through Army Training Network (ATN). An EXEVAL is required for any unit to be assessed as T or T- on a task. e.  The Army standard for assessing overall unit training readiness is to use separate assessments of the following spec-ified proficiencies, which are directly related to the units training readiness and are reflected in the T-level (T1  T4) defined in AR 220  1. Detail procedures for calculating these specified training readiness proficiencies are located on ATN, available at https://atn.army.mil. (1)  Individual, crew-served, and platform qualification.  The I/CS/P qualification compares the number of weapon sys-tems in the unit (individual, crew-served, and platform weapon systems) that have qualified operators with the number of those weapon systems required in the unit as listed in the units modified table of organization and equipment. Operators are qualified when they meet the qualification standards contained in doctrinal references associated with their assigned weapon system(s). (2)  Mission essential task proficiency.  The MET proficiency reflects extent to which the unit has achieved proficiency on its METs. Proficiency on each MET is assessed against T&EO standards found in the units CATS accessible via ATN at https://atn.army.mil. (3)  Collective live-fire task proficiency.  This indicates whether the unit has executed a collective task to T&EO stand-ards using live ammunition. The collective task is established by commander-to-commander dialogue. (4)  Training days.  The T-days estimates the minimum number of continuous training days, unconstrained by resources, required to achieve T1 (fully trained). T-days is derived from the units approved training plan and refined through com-mander-to-commander dialogue. f.  Report standardization issues to related TRADOC proponents, including: (1)  Procedures that are performed differently by similar units in spite of standard guidance. (2)  Procedures that units perform differently than the training base. (3)  Operations and maintenance procedures for equipment that vary despite similarities in equipment. (4)  Directed procedures that vary from established guidance and should be standardized (5)  Missing, incorrect, or inadequate procedures. g.  Unresolved standardization issues will be reported to CG, TRADOC, who (1)  Establishes integration and standardization programs to ensure compatibility of training and doctrine. (2)  Identifies integration items for inclusion in standardization programs. (3)  Conducts integration and standardization team assistance visits to divisions or higher units in coordination with ASCC/RA commanders (4)  Advises DCS, G  3/5/7 on matters pertaining to standardization. (5)  Tasks the appropriate TRADOC staff or proponent school to develop training solutions for standardization issues. h.  Common mandatory training (CMT) will comply with training and education standards and requirements in accord-ance with AR 350  1 and TRADOC regulations governing institutional and unit level training. All CMT training products will be input into the training development capability (TDC), validated in accordance with TRADOC 350  70 and support-ing TRADOC pamphlets, and accessible by units thru ATN. (1)  CMT requirements are approved by DCS, G  3/5/7 and identified in AR 350  1. (2)  All CMT will be reviewed annually by DCS, G  3/5/7 to determine need, duplication, standardization, consolidation or reduction. (3)  CMT requirements may exist for both institutional and unit training, however, content will not be duplicated be-tween unit and institutional training environments. (4)  Proponents responsible for information not characterized as CMT, but characterized as commander responsibilities should maintain training support resources to assist commanders addressing issues under the realm of command responsi-bilities (see AR 600  20). (5)  Mandatory training will not have a prescribed duration for conducting the training. All mandatory training must have alternative methods of delivery which do not require the use of an automated system or projection system. CMT will not exist in an online / computer based delivery environment only. (6)  2-star commanders (or equivalent senior executive service officials), and state adjutants general (TAG) are dele-gated the authority to exempt units from mandatory training requirements (unless prohibited by law or Secretary of the Army decision) in instances where the unit can demonstrate insufficient time available to achieve readiness requirements. 1  18.  Conducting training in units and schools Army training, doctrine, products, techniques and resources are located on the Army Training Network, https://atn.army.mil. The ATMS (Army Training Network and Digital Training Management System (DTMS)) is the Armys primary tool that provides access to training strategies (CATS, collective and individual tasks and drills, training support packages (TSPs)); METL and DTMS is mandated to manage unit training. HQDA mandatory training subjects for training in units, training in institutions, and training for Army Civilians is available in appendix F and on Army Training Network. Leaders conducting training will  a.  Create a challenging and rewarding training and education environment and treat all Soldiers and Army Civilians with dignity and respect. b.  Ensure the training/learning objectives are understood (tasks/educational outcomes, conditions, and standards for each task to be trained). c.  Demonstrate, guide, and evaluate in the assigned tasks to the established standard. d.  Leverage live, virtual/gaming, and constructive training enablers during unit and institutional training. e.  Provide feedback on performance using after action review (AAR), METL/T&EO proficiency assessments recorded in DTMS, and capture any observations, lessons, and/or best practices in an AAR and lessons learned in JLLIS. (in ac-cordance with AR 11  33). f.  Account for the consumption of training resources. g.  Framework for HQDA common mandatory training topics between initial military training (IMT), PME, and unit training. DOD and Army programs citing requirements for common mandatory (military or Army Civilian) training (or education, or information) in more than one environment (IMT,PME, or unit) or periodic refresher training at the unit level will comply with the following (1)  Initial military training.  Intended purpose is baseline or foundational training (or education or information) neces-sary at entry into the Army Profession; leader/cadre led; and should require a demonstration of knowledge. (2)  Professional military education.  Intended purpose is leader training which is rank or duty specific focused on leader responsibilities to build or sustain the effect in elements they will lead; should qualify the leader to do something different than content in IMT or as refresher training/information within the unit. (3)  Unit training.  Intended purpose is leader training which is rank or duty specific focused on leader responsibilities to build or sustain the effect in elements they will lead; should qualify the leader to do something different than content in IMT or as refresher training/information within the unit. 1  19.  Managing training in units Leaders in Joint organizations (that is, Joint Task Forces, Joint Land Component Commands, and Combatant Commander (COCOM) Headquarters) manage training using procedures in the Joint Training Manual for the Armed Forces of the United States (see CJCSM 3500.03E). Leaders in Army units (for example, TDA units and modified table of organization and equipment (MTOE) units within ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs) manage training using procedures found in FM 7  0 and the Army Training Network website, https://atn.army.mil. Army Training Network supports and is consistent with Joint training management procedures. Leaders in Army units will a.  Use FM 7  0 and ATMS (DTMS) to manage unit training.  The ATMS provides the ability to plan, resource and manage unit and individual training at the unit level and provides access to all proponent approved CATS, collective, and individual tasks. Additional information is provided on the ATMS website at: http://dtms.army.mil/dtms or available at the DTMS help desk by calling (913) 684  2700 or toll free: (877) 241  0347. In support of training management, units are required to maintain the following personnel capabilities: (1)  Brigades, divisions, and corps will maintain at least one DTMS Manager in order to facilitate DTMS capability and subordinate unit training management. Garrison commands will maintain at least one DTMS Manager separate from those assigned to resident units in order to facilitate the management and training of separate brigades, battalions, companies; and garrison commands (as applicable). (2)  Corps and division commanders will enact programs, measures, and directives to communicate command emphasis on maintaining this capability. Installation, corps and divisions will integrate inspection of unit training management ca-pabilities into their command inspection programs. (3)  Garrisons, divisions, and corps will provide a list of their current DTMS Managers to the DTMS Proponent (TMD, Combined Arms Center (CAC) T) on 1 April and 1 October of every fiscal year in order to facilitate tracking of DTMS training capability throughout the Army. Master Trainer course completion will be annotated in each Soldiers individual training record (ITR). (4)  Unit commanders will maintain a sufficient number of DTMS operators to ensure timely records maintenance. b.  Focus training.  Focus training on collective tasks derived from the units standard METL, and or assigned unit mission tasks and the higher commanders guidance. Unit CATS provide focus on METL-based training strategies and are synchronized to support readiness requirements. They are designed to train a unit to perform its missions, employment, capabilities and functions and contain all the collective tasks designed to train the unit. Training Events in the CATS provide recommendations of the methods that can be employed to train those tasks. Training Events are often designed to suggest a progressive training path so that commanders can select the appropriate level of event difficulty to match the units level of proficiency at executing the collective tasks associated with that task set. CATS are nested Corps down to Crew level, integrate DA Pam 350  38 and provide recommendations on who, what, how and the frequency to train. They provide recommendations on use of TADSS, training gates, live-fire proficiency gates, multi-echelon training, resources and provide a base line purpose, outcome and execution guidance for each event. CATS provide a strategy from which leaders can extract a unit training plan based on the units assigned missions and readiness requirements. c.  Multi-echelon training.  Utilize multi-echelon training as a technique to minimize effects of time constraints on train-ing. Commanders should use multi-echelon training and enablers to train as we fight and ensure their units mission readiness. Training events must have a focus, and multi-echelon training or enablers cannot change or overly distract the focus of a training event. d.  Conduct training to standard. e.  Minimize and manage risk.  Minimize risk in training activities by applying the risk management process in accord-ance with Army Techniques Publication (ATP) 5  19 when planning all training events. While minimizing risks, it is imperative commanders also manage risks throughout training cycles and must identify methods to mitigate risks during events/activities while still accomplishing desired end state for the unit. f.  Manage activities.  Manage activities so that training land is protected, rehabilitated, and maintained. g.  Available time.  Given  an as designed or assigned mission, Army unit maximize use of available time. h.  Assess performance.  Assess performance in training and operations each time the unit trains, recording the assess-ment in DTMS and provide feedback to unit personnel and Army lessons learned processes. i.  Units should maximize Army Total Force partnership opportunities to integrate and support training with RC (USARC) and National Guard (ARNG) partners. Commanders should leverage opportunities for CTC rotations and the RC collective training programs such as: the exportable combat training capability (XCTC); combat support training ex-ercises (CSTX); and warrior exercises (WAREX) to integrate training. 1  20.  Managing training in Army schools The Army coordinates course allocations for schools, to include the resident training base and distributed training courses, through ATRRS. The ATRRS is the Armys system of record for managing individual training requirements outside the unit using a centralized database. Selected training requirements, course schedules, quota assignments, and student man-agement (reservations, enrollment, and completion entries) will be documented in ATRRS. Course completion information will be automatically populated into DTMS from the ATRRS system. ATRRS operates in accordance with the provisions of AR 350  10. a.  The Structure and Manning Decision Review (SMDR) validates training seat requirements, compares those require-ments with school training capacity, and reconciles differences into an affordable, acceptable, and executable training program. DCS, G  3/5/7 and DCS, G  1 co-chair the SMDR. DCS, G  1, coordinates the SMDR and verifies and provides the record set of training requirements reviewed at the SMDR. DCS, G  1, provides the manpower program (Regular Army accessions, reserve component inputs to training, and RA/RC end strength projections), from which the training require-ments are derived and ensures that personnel policies support the training program. DCS, G  3/5/7, validates the training seat requirements, based on historical quota utilization rates, force structure adjustments, strategic senior Army leader decisions, etc. In coordination with the DCS, G  1, DCS, G  3/5/7, provides guidance to resolve course-related issues and develops alternatives to resolve shortfalls in training capacity. After general officer approval, the individual training pro-gram (training seat requirements) is published jointly by DCS, G  1 and DCS G  3/5/7, in the Army Program for Individual Training (ARPRINT). Detailed guidance on SMDR is included in AR 350  10. b.  The ARPRINT is the Army mission and resource document for individual training. The ARPRINT reflects projected individual training seat requirements and approved training programs for formal instruction. The ARPRINT is based on Army manpower requirements, matches as closely as possible the training loads contained within program budget guid-ance, is used by training systems (commands) to allocate resources, and serves as a basis for determining frequency of training. A key byproduct of ARPRINT establishes Army (officer, enlisted, and Army Civilians) training baselines. These baselines constitute affordable levels of training man-years for officer, enlisted, and Army civilians and incorporate all individual training except initial military training (IMT) for both officer and enlisted Soldiers. Detailed guidance on the ARPRINT is included in AR 350  10. c.  The Training Resources Arbitration Panel (TRAP) addresses unprogrammed training-seat changes to the ARPRINT during the execution and budget years. These changes can generate unprogrammed resource requirements such as addi-tional manpower, base operations (facilities, meals, lodging), equipment, ammunition, and funding, for which commands may require resourcing through HQDA. If unprogrammed resourcing through HQDA is required, the TRAP helps HQDA determine whether to approve the unprogrammed training-seat changes or disapprove and accept risk. DCS, G  3/5/7 and DCS, G  1 co-chair the TRAP. Detailed guidance on the TRAP process is included in AR 350  10. d.  The analysis of change cell is a forum that addresses issues impacting training in the budget and execution years too complex to address in the TRAP or SMDR. Its role is to develop recommendations to resolve critical issues impacting inputs to programmed training. Issues include, changes in training loads generated by changes in current authorization documents, Army policies, current manpower inventory, projected gains and losses, training attrition rates, training strat-egies and availability of resources. Detailed guidance on the analysis of change cell is included in AR 350  10. e.  The TRADOC Training Requirements Analysis System (TRAS) integrates the training development process with PPBE by documenting training strategies, courses, and related resource requirements. The TRAS integrates external re-source acquisition systems for students, instructors, equipment and devices, ammunition, dollars, and facilities with the training development and implementation process. TRAS documents enable Army training institutions to plan and support the development and implementation of individual training courses. Proper use of TRAS enables Army schools to convert training strategies from concepts to realities. Additional information about the TRAS process can be found in TRADOC supporting publications. Section V Army Training Programs 1  21.  Oversight of Army training programs The DCS, G  3/5/7 approves all Army training programs and provides oversight for several program areas. The DCS, G  3/5/7 is assisted by the Director of Training, designated HQDA lead agents, and the TGOSC. These programs apply to both the Operating Force and Generating Force. Consistent with the training management principles in ADP/ADRP 7  0 and FM 7  0, HQDA as a general policy strives to decentralize responsibilities for determining unit training requirements to the unit commander, who is best postured to analyze the units training status and plan training events maximizing TSS capabilities available to the unit.  HQDA establishes training requirements and program guidance when important to ensure a particular force capability, equity, or standard. The CATS Program provides a metric useful for HQDA to determine operational tempo (OPTEMPO) and training resourcing requirements for the POM as well as strategy from which leaders can extract a unit training plan. DTMS is the required automated system to use to assists the commander/trainer in planning, resourcing, and tracking individual and collective unit training tasks. The ASA (M&RA) is responsible for setting the strategic direction for and ensuring Army policies, plans, and programs for training and reserve affairs are executed con-sistent with law, regulation, and policy. 1  22.  Physical readiness training Physical readiness is an integral part of ground combat readiness. The ability to develop, maintain, and perform warrior tasks and battle drills (WTBDs) and high physical demand tasks (HPDTs) is critical to mission success. This regulation describes policies, requirements and standards for the Physical Readiness Training Program (PRTP). Policies governing physical readiness and height/weight standards during military institutional training are contained in chapter 3-13. Policies and requirements governing physical readiness and medical profiles are contained in chapter 3-14. Policies and require-ments governing the Army PRTP for all Soldiers are contained in paragraph F-5. The primary reference for developing Soldier physical readiness is FM 7  22. 1  23.  The Combat Training Center Program The CTC Program consists of the Mission Command Training Program (MCTP), Fort Leavenworth, KS and the Maneuver Combat Training Centers located at the National Training Center (NTC), Fort Irwin, CA; the Joint Readiness Training Center (JRTC), Fort Polk, LA; and the Joint Multinational Readiness Center (JMRC), Hohenfels, Germany. The CTC Program objectives are to increase unit readiness; develop battlefield leaders; embed doctrine, provide feedback on unit tactical effectiveness to participants; provide a realistic operational environment (OE); and provide data to improve doc-trine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, and facilities (DOTMLPF) input to the capa-bility development processes. AR 350  50 establishes Army policies for the management of the CTC Program. Section VI Training and Education Schools 1  24.  The Army School System TASS is a composite school system made up of Regular Army (RA), ARNG, USAR, and Army Civilian institutional training systems. TASS conducts IMT (for example, basic combat training, advanced individual training (AIT), one-sta-tion-unit-training (OSUT), basic officer leaders courses (BOLC A and B)); reclassification training (for example, MOS and officer branch qualification); officer, warrant officer, NCO and Army Civilian professional development training and education (for example, the Officer Evaluation System (OES), Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development Sys-tem (NCOPDS), and Civilian Education System (CES)); and functional training (for example, ASI, SQI, SI, LIC). This is accomplished through both standard resident and distributed-learning courses. The RC TASS units are functionally aligned and linked to appropriate training proponents. TASS is further discussed in chapter 3. 1  25.  One Army School System One Army School System is comprised of RC and RA institutions that utilize training resources to train Soldiers in the most efficient and effective manner possible without regard to component. One Army School System is more responsive to the mission by using various delivery means, to provide relevant and realistic institutional training. One Army School System is designed to maximize training capacity across the Army, support the Army Learning Model 2015 and enhance multi component training opportunities where feasible. One Army School System is further discussed in chapter 3. 1  26.  Schools of other government organizations Army training and education needs may be met through attendance at schools operated by the other military departments of DOD and non-DOD schools. Selected personnel may attend schools and courses under the control of these components to promote understanding and operations knowledge or to acquire a skill or specialty not taught in Army schools. Eligibility and selection criteria for attendance at schools operated by the other military departments of the DOD are discussed in chapter 3. All training of Army Soldiers at schools operated by other military departments of DOD and non-DOD will be managed in ATRRS. 1  27.  Inter-Service training a.  The Inter-Service Training Review Organization (ITRO) is a voluntary organization of the military services estab-lished to set policies and procedures for inter-service training and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of service individual skills training consistent with individual service. b.  The ITRO reviews newly proposed and current inter-Service training to increase effectiveness and efficiency through: (1)  Feasibility studies for new consolidation or collocation of training and life cycle maintenance studies for current inter-Service course or curricular realignments. Studies are used to determine resource efficiencies (cost, manpower, and facilities) associated with consolidation or collocation. (2)  Memorandums of agreement between services or standardization. (3)  Analysis of resources required for inter-Service training, administrative or management improvement. c.  The ITRO assists the military departments by performing special studies directed toward improving common training needs among the services. Moreover, ITRO functions as a forum for the free exchange of ideas, information, and new technology as related to inter-Service training. d.  ITRO policies and procedures are covered in AR 351  9. Chapter 2 Responsibilities 2  1.  Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics and Technology) The ASA (ALT) will provide policy and guidance to research, develop, and procure system and non-system TADSS and other approved requirements for training support materials. In addition, as the Army acquisition executive, the ASA (ALT) will a.  Through assigned program executive office (PEO) and/or program manager (PMs) (1)  Provide new equipment training (NET) funding for each assigned system in accordance with the approved capability requirements document, approved training activities, approved program baseline, and decisions made during the milestone reviews governed by AR 70  1. (2)  Coordinate NET strategies, management and the conduct of NET with (a)  The U.S. Army Materiel Command (AMC) NET managers and AMC training developers (TNGDEVs). (b)  The proponent (DA-designated or TRADOC-designated) TNGDEVs for approval of all NET products. (c)  The TRADOC Combined Arms Center Training to ensure NET products support individual and collective tasks. (3)  Coordinate Army modernization training (AMT) policy issues with DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate), Wash-ington, DC 20310  0450. Field new equipment and equipment upgrades in accordance with the Army Resourcing Priority List and DCS, G  3/5/7 and DCS, G  8 priorities and schedules in order to support the Generating Force and Operating Force. b.  Formulate and manage policies governing the training and education programs for Army Acquisition Corps (AAC), Army Acquisition Workforce (AAW) personnel and generating force/operating force regarding operational contracts sup-port skills and knowledge. c.  Act as HQDA point of contact for career development of AAC/AAW personnel. d.  Coordinate with the ASA (M&RA); DCS, G  3/5/7; DCS, G  1; The Army Office of the General Counsel; The Judge Advocate General (TJAG); Chief, National Guard Bureau; Director, Army National Guard (DARNG); Chief, Army Re-serve (CAR); and Commander, HRC, on policy issues governing AAC/AAW military and Civilian training and education. e.  Coordinate with HRC and DARNG for administration of quotas for OES and/or Noncomissioned Officer Evaluation System (NCOES), certification, and functional area training courses for RA personnel. f.  Through the Director, for Acquisition Career Management (1)  Assist the Army acquisition executive in implementing Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (Title 10, United States Code, Section 1701 (10 USC 1701)) provisions. This includes high-quality education, training, and other career broadening programs to enhance technical competencies and leadership skills of persons serving in acquisition positions. (2)  Manage and implement the Army Career Development Program for (AAC/AAW) personnel, in coordination with the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), Director, U.S. Army Acquisition Support Center (USAASC). (3)  Establish and publish education, training, and experience standards for each acquisition position category and career field. Standards will be designated either mandatory or desired, in conjunction with OSD functional boards and functional advisors. (4)  Identify and publish career paths for Army military and Army Civilian acquisition personnel. Career paths will include the mandatory and desired education, training, experience, and recommended assignments necessary for progres-sion to the most senior acquisition positions. (5)  Assist with implementing improvements regarding development of non-acquisition operational contract support skills and knowledge. This includes education, training and other mission enhancing programs. g.  Oversee the development, coordination and implementation of policy and programs for the Army Security Assistance Program. Develop Army input to security assistance programs in coordination with the Army staff. h.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for developing policy concerning foreign training programs under international mili-tary education and training; foreign military sales; foreign military financing; international narcotics and law enforcement affairs; and nonproliferation, antiterrorism (AT), de-mining, and related matters. 2  2.  Assistant Secretary of the Army (Installations, Energy and Environment) The ASA (IE&E) is responsible for matters related to installation, real estate (to include new land purchases), military construction; environment, safety and occupational health; National Environmental Policy Act (42 USC 4321  42 USC 4347); and the Land Use Requirements Studies. 2  3.  Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) The ASA (M&RA) specific responsibilities include setting the strategic direction for and ensuring Army policies, plans and programs for manpower management, training, leader development, personnel, and Reserve Affairs are executed con-sistent with law, regulation and policy across all the Army components (the RA, the ARNG/Army National Guard of the United States, USAR, Army Civilian and contractor). The ASA (M&RA) will supervise the development and ensure the execution of policies and programs pertaining to total Army readiness and training. 2  4.  Chief Information Officer/G  6 The CIO/G  6 will a.  Exercise HQDA responsibility concerning training for systems that provide network connectivity in both the opera-tional and garrison environments. b.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for information assurance training and develop policy related to the training and cer-tification of information assurance personnel (for example, system administrator, network administrator, and information assurance security officer). c.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for Army Civilian management, training, and education within Career Program 34 (Information Technology Management). d.  Develop a certification process that validates integrated unit information technology (IT) configuration. This certifi-cation applies to the initial fielding and subsequent upgrades of hardware, software, and training devices. e.  If an Army organization has a compelling reason for not using the Army e-Learning Program, managed by the DCS, G  3/5/7, they must submit a waiver request signed by their commander/director ( general officer or SES) to the Army e-Learning Office at army.elearning@us.army.mil. Waiver requests will be processed within three working days. Appeals to the Army e-Learning Project Officers decision can be made to the Career Management Office (SAIC  PRC) within the Office of the Director, Policy and Resources, CIO/G  6. Details for the waiver and appeal process can be found on Army Knowledge Online (AKO), by clicking on Self-Service, My Education. 2  5.  The Inspector General TIG will a.  Conduct, as appropriate, Armywide inspections related to training policy, and the impacts of training on the readiness and warfighting capabilities of all Army units. b.  Conduct inspector general training and sustainment courses in accordance with AR 20  1. 2  6.  Chief of Public Affairs CPA will a.  Develop public affairs doctrine that is congruent with public policy and upon which Army public affairs training is based. b.  Serve as the proponent for, exercise HQDA responsibility for, and develop policy for the public affairs FA (FA 46). c.  Coordinate with the Defense Information School in the design and development of ITRO public affairs training materiel. d.  Manage public affairs advanced education programs supporting the professional development of public affairs Sol-diers and Army Civilians. e.  Establish policy and manage and provide public affairs training and education products to support training and edu-cation to include HQDA mandatory training requirements. 2  7.  Chief, National Guard Bureau The CNGB is the principal adviser to the SECARMY on matters relating to the National Guard and is the channel of communications on all matters pertaining to the National Guard and the Army National Guard of the United States between DA and the several States and Territories. The CNGB is responsible for implementing SECARMY and DA guidance for the Army National Guard (ARNG), including acquiring, managing and distributing ARNG resources and developing and administering policies and programs affecting the ARNG, and for fulfilling Army responsibilities related to the ARNG for the SECARMY and DA. The CNGB coordinates with and advises the ASA (M&RA) to ensure that the ARNG's budget and policies are consistent with DA policy and total Army interests. The CNGB is the principal military adviser to the CSA on National Guard matters. The CNGB is assigned responsibility for: a.  Informing the SECARMY and appropriate members of the Secretariat of all significant matters and communications provided to others pertaining to DA. b.  Organizing and directing the NGB, managing its personnel and other resources to accomplish assigned responsibil-ities with respect to the ARNG and ensuring direct liaison between the NGB and the HQDA Staff. c.  Implementing DOD and DA guidance on the structure, strength authorizations and other resources of the ARNG of the United States. d.  Prescribing the training, discipline and requirements for the ARNG and allocating Federal funds for the training of the ARNG. Includes developing an implementation plan to support the Army Leader Development Strategy (ALDS) and place emphasis on leader development across all cohorts (officers, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers, and Army Civilians). e.  Ensuring that units and members of the ARNG are trained by the States in accordance with approved policies and programs of the SECARMY. f.  Monitoring and assisting the States, consistent with SECARMY or Secretary of Defense guidance, in the organiza-tion, maintenance and operation of ARNG units to provide well-trained and well-equipped units capable of supporting and augmenting the total Army, including conducting Homeland Defense and Defense Support of Civil Authorities missions. g.  Planning, programming and administering the budget for the ARNG and coordinating with the ASA (M&RA) to ensure consistency with DA policy and total Army interests. h.  Supervising the Active Guard and Reserve program as it pertains to the ARNG in accordance with processes and priorities established by the SECARMY. i.  Ensuring Army officials and personnel of the National Guard Bureau comply with applicable DA policies, issuances, publications and legal opinions and that appointments of all Army officials and personnel of the NGB comply with appli-cable Army personnel and manpower policies. j.  Developing and promulgating, as authorized by the SECARMY in applicable Army directives, regulations and pub-lications on ARNG matters consistent with DA policies. k.  Facilitating and coordinating with other HQDA Principal Officials, including the ASA (M&RA); DCS, G  I; and DCS, G  3/5/7 on the development of departmental policies and programs for mobilizing and employing the ARNG as part of the Army's operational force to meet requirements. l.  Description of additional activities include: (1)  Ensure ARNG units are organized, trained, and prepared for mobilization, deployment and missions in support of the CCDR or as otherwise directed. Certify and approve pre-mobilization training in accordance with current guidelines on RC training. (2)  Recommend HQDA policy for training the ARNG. (3)  Recommend weapons qualification and training policies affecting ARNG. (4)  Provide input for updates of Army maneuver and weapons training strategies. (5)  Program and budget to support ARNG training requirements as defined by Army maneuver and weapons training strategies. (6)  Prescribe programs to maintain physical readiness of the ARNG. (7)  Develop procedures, and standards for training programs in coordination with FORSCOM, U.S. Army Pacific (USARPAC), U.S. Army Europe (USAREUR), USASOC, U.S. Army Reserve Command (USARC), and HRC in prepa-ration for PME. (8)  Assist FORSCOM in the development of command training guidance as it pertains to the ARNG. (9)  Coordinate and facilitate the support of the appropriate ASCC for training support when required and requested. (10)  Coordinate with Army component commanders on the units, which will participate in overseas deployment train-ing (ODT). (11)  Support the states, territories, and District of Columbia in the training of ARNG units. (12)  Develop procedures and standards for training ARNG Active Guard Reserve (AGR) program participants. (13)  Establish military education prerequisites in appropriate ARNG regulations, except for criteria prescribed in AR 135  155. (14)  Recommend policy on professional career development of Soldiers in ARNG. (15)  Establish initial active duty for training (IADT) requirements for MOS-producing Total Army Training System (TATS) courses for the ARNG. (16)  Represent ARNG in the SMDR process. (17)  Select ARNG personnel to attend Army and DOD schools. Schedule ARNG officers for the BOLC and Captains Career Course (CCC), and WOCS, WOBC, WOAC, WOILE, and WOSSE. State Adjutants General will control quotas and monitor input for resident NCOPDS courses conducted by TASS institutions. (18)  Support peacetime training requirements for ARNG Soldiers in TATS courses. (19)  Manage all NGB personnel attending non-Army schools in ATRRS. (20)  Develop, in coordination with the ACOMs, policy for access, use, and management of ATRRS in ARNG. (21)  Establish and provide guidance and direction to ARNG TASS organizations. (22)  Program and budget to support TASS. (23)  Support compliance with the Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act and DOD directed acquisition position qualifications and certification requirements. (24)  Participate in the new equipment training and displaced equipment training (DET) planning process to include a review of the training strategy as outlined in the system training plan (STRAP). (25)  Support TADLP (a)  Implements the ARNG Distance Learning (DL) Program as the proponent for DL in the ARNG. (b)  Coordinate with TRADOC for additional resource requirements to deliver DL courses, such as specialized training aids, manpower, and equipment. Supports the SMDR and the TRAP to identify all resource requirements for DL course delivery. (c)  Coordinate with TRADOC to develop and implement an automated training and education design capability. (d)  Coordinate with TRADOC to develop and implement a DL reach-back and lifelong-learning capability. (e)  Serve as the office of primary responsibility for the training and technology components of DL within the ARNG. (f)  Ensure interoperability of ARNG DL technologies with TADLP. (g)  Provide and sustain ARNG DL technologies. (h)  Provide access for U.S. Army active duty and reserve Soldiers at ARNG DL classrooms in accordance with the cross component resourcing agreement. (i)  Synchronize DL courseware development prioritization with the U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command capa-bility manager (TCM), TADLP. (j)  Review DL courseware and provides concurrence for course administrative data (CAD) and programs of instruction (POIs). (26)  Use the Army Learning Content Management Capability (ALCMC) to (a)  Coordinate and schedule the delivery of DL training through ATRRS between the originating sources and receiving locations. (b)  Provide skills-gap analysis associated with tasks and ILPs (skills gap analysis allows commanders, supervisors, instructors, and others to do a database query on any subordinate to determine what skills are associated with the subordi-nates assignment, skill level, MOS, and history of received training). (c)  Manage students, as necessary, within DL phases, modules, and lessons. (d)  Manage, assign, and deliver learning resources required to support DL, when and where needed. (27)  Provide DCS, G  3/5/7 with a quarterly courseware development report. The report is due on the tenth working day following the end of each quarter. (28)  Develop, validate, and maintain ARNG training requirements in ATRRS for DOD and Army schools, and training battalions under TASS. m.  Review annually current institutional training force structure requirements (instructors, support personnel, and so forth) to determine the right structure to better support the institutional training mission in coordination with TRADOC, USARC and HQDA. Document enduring requirements. n.  Account for the total institutional training instructor and support personnel requirements for NGB, in coordination with DCS, G  3/5/7. o.  Participate in the Training Coordination Council Workshop  (TCCW). Identify ARNG constraints in manpower, infrastructure, services and equipment to TRADOC. p.  Execute training support (range operations, integrated training area management, training support center, supporting culminating events, lane support and mission training complex (MTC) operations) at ARNG installations, consistent with the mission commanders priorities. q.  Prepare requirements for and execute TSS Services on ARNG installations. r.  Ensure subordinate commands/Soldiers are aware of and understand the Institutional Training Directed Lodging and Meal (ITDLM) Program and authorized/approved Institutional Training travel entitlements. s.  Issue ARNG training support funds to USACE and AMC through General Fund Enterprise Business System (GFEBS) with instructions to use the funds to support ARNG resident student lodging and directed meal requirements under the ITDLM Program. t.  Develop an implementation plan to meet the intent of, and support the ALDS and place emphasis on leader develop-ment across all cohorts (officers, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers, and Army Civilians). 2  8.  Deputy Chief of Staff, G  1 The DCS, G  1 will a.  Supervise HRC in managing the professional development of active duty Soldiers, to include: (1)  Select and schedule active duty Soldiers for attendance at Army schools. (2)  Develop policy governing the use of training results within the Enlisted Personnel Management System (EPMS). b.  Develop policy guidance for the Army Health Promotion Program, Army Body Composition/Weight Control Pro-gram, Army Substance Abuse Program, and the Tobacco Cessation Program, in compliance with DCS, G  3/5/7. c.  Develop policy for direction, control, and approval of the curriculum for the U.S. Military Academy (USMA) and the USMA Preparatory School. d.  Develop plans, policies, and programs for the administration of the junior and senior Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) programs, the National Defense Cadet Corps (NDCC), and administer the Federal Officer Candidate School (OCS). e.  Coordinate with the Superintendent, USMA to assure standardized training in all commissioning sources. f.  Determine the specialty, MOS, career management field classification, and enlistment and reenlistment criteria of grade structure requirements for the Army; provide this data to DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate), to assist in establish-ing training base requirements. g.  Develop and administer the Armys military personnel management system in coordination with appropriate agen-cies. h.  Develop policy for direction, control, and operations of the Army Continuing Education System (ACES) including Army Learning Center and APT. Plan, program, and budget for ACES, less Army Learning Center and APT. i.  Monitor, assess, and recommend to DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate), actions on training as part of human sys-tems integration (HSI). j.  Review NET plans and displaced equipment training (DET) plans for personnel requirements and shortfalls. Provide comments and recommended solutions to materiel developer (MATDEV) and proponent (TRADOC or DA if applicable) TNGDEV, as appropriate. k.  Ensure timely and accurate MOS decisions. l.  Provide personnel assessments and distribution priorities to the USAR and ACOM pertaining to materiel fielding plans. m.  Review near-term personnel plans, policies, and programs to ensure they support ACOM personnel requirements with the correct MOS for new systems. n.  Develop personnel policy guidance and procedures for the development of institutional training requirements for the Army in accordance with AR 350  10. o.  Manage ATRRS in accordance with AR 350  10, in coordination with DCS, G  3/5/7, p.  Provide guidance and direction for the operation of the Civilian Human Resources Agency. q.  As the proponent for the Sexual Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention (SHARP) Program, provides over-sight/guidance and approval for all SHARP training curriculum information and resource materials in conjunction with TRADOC (Army SHARP Academy). Responsible for ensuring all training materials are reviewed by the Office of the Judge Advocate General (OTJAG) prior to being released to be used in training. Responsible for the development of HQDA approved SHARP policy, prevention and marketing materials. TRADOC will ensure all SHARP training materials are made available through (ATN and ALMS), PME Courses, CES Courses, SHARP Academy Courses, and the SHARP foundation courses. r.  Develop HQDA-approved policy, prevention, professional development and awareness training information, re-source materials, and training courses for substance abuse, suicide prevention, and resilience and performance enhance-ment. All training requirements / products must be coordinated with G  3/5/7 for approval. s.  Manage the Armys Civilian intern program (see also AR 690  950). t.  Support The Army Distributed Learning Program (TADLP) in accordance with guidance from DCS, G  3/5/7: (1)  Develop Army personnel policy guidance for distributed learning (DL) instructional activities. (2)  Provide direct access for training enrollment to Soldiers and Army Civilians through the ATRRS DL website for all self-development training. u.  Support DCS, G  2 and DCS, G  3/5/7, in reviewing the strategic language list for training as required (see chap 8 for additional details).  v.  Under DCS, G  1 staff supervision, the CG, HRC will (1)  Act as the principal agent for the DCS, G  1 staff supervision, in determining active duty peacetime and mobilization training-seat requirements. (2)  Manage the selected flow of personnel into Army schools and training centers. Select personnel to attend Army schools, non-Army schools, and training centers. Manage selected RA personnel attending Army schools, non-Army schools and training centers in ATRRS in accordance with TASS. Manage selected RA personnel to attend Army RC training institutions, as appropriate, to leverage all means of TASS. (3)  Assign active duty officers to captain career courses (CCCs) (except officers within the U.S. Medical Command (MEDCOM), Chaplain Corps, and Judge Advocate Generals Corps (JAGC). (4)  Manage quotas and select active duty  AMEDD officers, warrant officers, and enlisted personnel to attend desig-nated schools and courses. Assign active duty officers to BOLC, AMEDD Officer Basic Leader Course, and/or the AMEDD Officer Career Course. (5)  Manage the Advanced Civil Schooling Program. Coordinate with DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate), to develop RA training requirements for specialized skill and professional military education courses. (6)  Review NET plans and DET plans for personnel requirements and shortfalls and, in coordination with DCS, G  1, provide comments and recommended solutions to MATDEVs and TNGDEVs, when appropriate. (7)  Manage the Officer Candidate School (OCS) Program. (8)  Provide administrative support for the ROTC and NDCC programs; manage branch and basic entry specialty selec-tion and selection programs for ROTC graduates. (9)  Develop and manage training seat requirements for functional training courses for active duty personnel. (10)  Manage WO candidate accessions and schedule attendance at Warrant Officer Candidate School (WOCS) and Warrant Officer Basic Course (WOBC). Manage quotas and schedule active duty WO attendance at Warrant Officer Ad-vanced Course (WOAC), Warrant Officer Intermediate Level Education (WOILE), and Warrant Officer Senior Service Education (WOSSE). Select and assign WOs to serve as WOCS training, advising and counseling officers. (11)  Develop and manage, in compliance with DCS, G  3/5/7, the Advanced Leaders Course (ALC) and Senior Leaders Course (SLC) training seat requirements. (12)  Schedule RA Soldiers to attend ALC and SLC. (13)  Support the Sergeants Major Course (SMC), selection system (including the resident, non-resident and modified courses) and manage active duty training seats for the SMC. (14)  Develop policy governing the Academic Evaluation Reporting System for officer and enlisted students. (15)  Exercise responsibility for AR 11  6 and (a)  Develop personnel management systems and procedures for the Army Foreign Language Program (see AR 11  16). (b)  Coordinate with the DCS, G  2, and users of AR 11  6 to manage the career program for WOs and enlisted linguist personnel. (16)  Develop, coordinate, and issue technical and regulatory guidance concerning management of the Army Learning Center and APT programs. (17)  Provide administrative and management control of the Total Army Centralized Individual Training Solicitation (TAC  ITS) program for DCS, G  1. (18)  Schedule USAR officers for BOLC, CCC, and resident ILE Course. (19)  Schedule USAR warrant officers for WOCS, WOBC, WOAC, WOILE, and WOSSE. (20)  Manage selected USAR personnel attending non-Army schools in ATRRS. (21)  Develop and manage RA officers to attend the CCC and ILE. (22)  Develop the BOLC training seat requirements to meet Army officer accession requirements in compliance with DCS, G  1. (23)  Support TADLP (a)  Participate in DL course reviews to validate course impact on personnel readiness. (b)  Identify through the DCS, G  1 to the training ACOMs, additional or alternative DL courses to meet personnel readiness requirements. (c)  Identify critical personnel readiness requirements that can be supported by DL, and recommends prioritization of requirements via the SMDR and TRAP. (24)  Ensure HRC will participate in the Training Coordination Council Workgroup (TCCW) and provide full support for training program execution. w.  One Army School System will (1)  Co-chair the SMDR ensuring that the output from the TCCW is incorporated in the requirement verification process for the out years. (2)  Serve as Army Staff proponent for policies and procedures for developing and verifying all Army institutional training and DL requirements for the Army (RA, ARNG, and USAR). (3)  Participate in the TCCW to resolve training requirements issues. y.  Participate in the TGOSC process in accordance with paragraph 114a(1). 2  9.  Deputy Chief of Staff, G  2 The DCS, G  2 will a.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for the functional aspects of officer, WO, enlisted, and Army Civilian intelligence and counterintelligence specialist training. b.  Exercise HQDA oversight for developing policy related to institutional and force intelligence and security training c.  Exercise HQDA oversight for developing policy related to opposing forces (OPFOR) training in accordance with AR 350  2. d.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for cryptologic training in accordance with DODI 3305.09 to include National Secu-rity Agency training forums, and general intelligence training and new training requirements in accordance with DODI 3305.02. e.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for the Army Foundry Intelligence Training Program, AR 350  32. f.  Serve as the Armys foreign language proponent in accordance with AR 11  6. In coordination with DCS, G  3/5/7, determine and provide TRADOC the countries/cultures and associated languages to include in the Culture, Regional Ex-pertise, and Language (CREL) Strategy Education and Training; and review the strategic language list for training (see chap 8 for additional details).  g.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for Army Civilian career management, training, and education within Career Program 35 (Intelligence). h.  Monitor the development of the Consolidated Cryptologic Program to ensure the submission of requirements for training and development support of Major Force Program 3 Consolidated Cryptologic Program Systems. i.  Serve as the HQDA representative on the Army on the Department of Defense Training and education board (DITEB) in accordance with DODI 3135.11. j.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for developing policy related to foreign disclosure in accordance with AR 380  10, within the institutional training domain. 2  10.  Deputy Chief of Staff, G  3/5/7 The DCS, G  3/5/7 exercises HQDA supervision for defining concepts, strategies, resources, policies, and programs for Army training, education, and leader development. The DCS, G  3/5/7 is delegated the authority to approve all taskings originating from HQDA that affect the training schedules of brigade and below units and will publish all enduring require-ments or taskings in DA Pam 350  1. The DCS, G  3/5/7 is delegated the authority to approve all training requirements originating from HQDA that affect Soldiers and Army units. The DCS, G  3/5/7 is also delegated the authority to approve specific exemptions to common mandatory training requirements in AR 350  1 and may further delegate that authority unless prohibited by law or DOD policy. The DCS, G  3/5/7 will remain responsible for any and all actions taken under the delegated or redelegated authority. All previous delegations of exemption authority for common mandatory training are rescinded. The DCS, G  3/5/7 will a.  Approve Army military and Army Civilian training and education programs and serve as the Army Staff proponent for all HQDA mandatory training requirements. Approve and publish a list of general subject areas in which Soldiers and leaders must possess a required level of knowledge and skills. Approve and add to the HQDA mandatory training list all training requirements directed by law, DOD, the SECARMY, the Army Staff, and agencies that have the authority to publish directives that include training requirements. b.  Coordinate with CG, TRADOC; the CG, U.S. Army Cadet Command for ROTC; the Commandant, U.S. Army Infantry School (USAIS) for Federal OCS; the DARNG for state-operated OCS; and the U.S. Army Warrant Officer Career College (USAWOCC) to assure standardized training in all commissioning and appointment sources. c.  Approve HQDA standard METL for Army units. Ensure Army training resource requirements defined by METL-based CATS are synchronized so that training is resourced and the Army can train to standard. d.  Serve as the chair of the Standards in training commission (STRAC) in accordance with DA Pam 350  38. e.  Serve as proponent for the Army SRP. Formulate policies for planning, programming, operating, and managing ranges and training lands. f.  Serve as Army policy and resource proponent for leader development (training and education). g.  Formulate policies, program resources and oversee the implementation of policy and programs for Army Civilian leader development programs to include the Civilian Education Program and the Army Civilian Training, Education and  Development System (ACTEDS). (1)  Identify effective and efficient delivery of training to meet training requirements for the Army Civilian Corps. (2)  Develop and manage training policy and training procedures for Army Civilians in military and civilian institutions. (3)  Manage the enterprise-level Army Civilian training requirements to meet the short and long-term Army and DOD training management goals/objectives. (4)  Validate Civilian functional training requirements identified by the DA Office of the Assistant G  1 for Civilian Personnel (AG  1(CP)), functional chief/functional chief representatives, ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs. Develop program-ming and budget data. (5)  Allocate HQDA ACTEDS training funds for competitive professional development (CPD) based on validated train-ing requirements. Manage the execution of those funds. (6)  Validate eligibility of CP and command nominations for competitive training. (7)  Prioritize training allocations for constrained courses during the year of execution and during the program objective memorandum (POM) years. (8)  Serve as a member of the Civilian Personnel Policy Committee. (9)  Report competitive training to OSD, Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and other key stakeholders as re-quired. (10)  Manage Army Civilian competitive professional development operations and enforcement management control procedures outlined within this interim policy. Distribute HQDA central training funds for CPD based on validated training requirements. Manage and monitor the execution of funds through financial databases and provide periodic updates, as required. (11)  Serve as the Army Staff proponent for managing all mandatory Army Civilian training requirements. (12)  Serve as the Armys liaison to OPM and DOD, as delegated by the ASA (M&RA), to ensure compliance with and implementation of training and leader development policy and program development as defined by OMB directives and statutory requirements. Monitor impacting legislation and coordinate with AG  1(CP). Maintain civilian training data, an enterprise training management system, and report to OSD, OPM and congress as directed. (13)  Establish new training strategies that accommodate emergence of new Armywide workforce development pro-grams, distance learning, delegated authority and its effect on training program analysis, evaluation and cost effectiveness. (14)  Co-chair the SMDR with DCS, G  1 and participate as a voting member in the TRAP to build an executable and affordable ARPRINT. (15)  Identify training courses to ensure integration of Army Civilians into existing military schools. Maximize the use of TRADOC and other military schools as planned resources for Civilian functional training. (16)  Develop, validate, resource, and manage an Army Civilian Training Student Account (CTSA) to support resident SSC participants. (17)  Ensure the integration of Army Civilians into existing military leader development programs wherever practical. h.  Program resources for range modernization and major training land acquisition projects determined to be a new mission requirement in accordance with AR 140  483, AR 350  19, AR 420  1, and DA Pam 420  1  2. i.  Advise the Chief of Staff on unified action  training programs. j.  Validate Joint training requirements for officer professional military education, as required by CJCSI 1800.01E. k.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for training Soldier and leader tasks and establishing policy for Army warrior training (AWT). l.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for Soldier training courses; the Army Physical Readiness Training Program; weapons qualification; chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and high yield explosive (CBRNE) defense training; Personnel Recovery (PR) training; training in the code of conduct; survival, evasion, resistance, and escape (SERE); Army amphib-ious training; and Army modernization training. m.  Monitor Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training (JA/ATT) Program (see app I). n.  Exercise HQDA responsibility and publish guidelines for RC pre- and post-mobilization training requirements. o.  Establish policy for training and education programs for military personnel in Civilian and industrial institutions. p.  Coordinate with the HQDA, DCS, G  1, on development of policies and programs for ACES. q.  Serve as the HQDA proponent and develop policy for the foreign area officer program (FA 48). r.  Serve as the HQDA proponent and develop policy for the simulation operations FA (FA 57). s.  Serve as the HQDA proponent and develop policy for the Strategist FA (FA 59). t.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for and develop policy for the Harvard Strategist Program. u.  Exercise HQDA responsibility and serve as the point of contact for the following: (1)  Defense Language Steering Committee. (2)  National Defense University. (3)  The in-country training phase of the Foreign Area Officers Program. (4)  Information Resource Management College. (5)  Institute for National Strategic Studies. (6)  Staff and SSCs of Other Nations program. (7)  Army Fellowships (see AR 621  7). v.  Provide HQDA representation for the Defense Management Education and Training Board. w.  Provide distribution plans for displaced equipment to the Army staff and the ACOMs. x.  Provide program and budget guidance for the operation of Army Learning Centers and the APT, to include printing and publishing language aptitude and proficiency tests for use throughout DOD. y.  Plan, execute, and manage foreign military training programs outside the Security Assistance Program. z.  Chair the Army TGOSC, through the Director of Training to (1)  Schedule COCs, and Work Groups in support of TGOSC efforts. (2)  Direct the training portions of the operations and maintenance, Army (OMA) program and budget. (3)  Monitor the training portions of the RA, ARNG and USAR budgets. (4)  Program funds to support approved Army training strategies and master plans. (5)  Approve training strategies developed for the individual ready reserve (IRR) by CG, TRADOC, and CG, MEDCOM, in coordination with CG, HRC. (6)  Serve as the Director of the U.S. Army CTC Program; develop policy and provide management oversight for the CTC Program. Serve as the ARSTAF focal point for all Army/joint service CTC actions and specify Army directed training required at the CTCs. The DCS, G  3/5/7 DOT serves as the DCS, G  3/5/7 principal advisor for all CTC matters. Execute additional CTC Program responsibilities in accordance with AR 350  50. (7)  Manage Army participation, support to and resource issues concerning unified action partner training, including: Joint interoperability program, and Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) Exercise Program. (8)  Approve ACOM proposals for contracted Soldier training courses in coordination with representatives from other Army staff elements and the proponent ACOM. (9)  Validate and integrate institutional training, unit training, and leader development requirements into unit set fielding (USF). (10)  Serve as the HQDA proponent for AMT and related support facilities. (11)  Coordinate AMT issues with HQDA staff agencies. (12)  Ensure NET requirements are planned and funded to support Army warfighting experiments, advanced technology demonstrations, and warfighting accelerated or urgent acquisition initiatives. (13)  Serve as the HQDA proponent for TADLP. (14)  Provide the TGOSC with an annual review of the e-Learning Program. (15)  Exercise HQDA responsibility for the Defense Foreign Language Program for military personnel. (16)  Supervise the programming and budgeting activities to support the NCOES, except for MEDCOM courses admin-istered by The Surgeon General (TSG). (17)  Develop policy for the management and operation of training support centers, except for policy governing visual information functions. (18)  Manage the Sustainable Range Program (SRP) (see chap 6). (19)  Ensure proponent institutions and CTCs are scheduled and funded to receive new equipment to coincide with operational fielding. aa.  Serve as the HQDA proponent for the Armys Institutional Training Travel Program except for those funded/ ad-ministered by TSG, DCS, G  1, and U.S. Army Special Operations Command (USASOC). (1)  Exercise HQDA responsibility for establishment of institutional training travel policies, procedures and standards for executing institutional training travel orders. (2)  Program and provide management oversight of institutional training travel funds. (3)  Exercise HQDA responsibility for the development, coordination, and implementation of training policies, priori-ties, and programs in support of the Armys institutional training mission. (4)  Determine and direct quarters and subsistence support for Soldiers attending institutional training in coordination with HQDA Staff agencies. (5)  Serve as proponent and provide management oversight for ITDLM Program. bb.  Provide management oversight and funding for the ATMS programs. cc.  Serve as the Armys senior language authority. Assist DCS, G  2 in determining the countries/cultures and languages to include in CREL requirements, to include reviewing the strategic language list for service concurrence. (See chapter 9 for additional details).  dd.  Support TADLP (1)  Provide HQDA oversight for DL. Responsibilities include policies and procedures required to support implemen-tation and sustainment of DL. (2)  Exercise HQDA responsibility for Soldier training and education courses, including those conducted with DL, and provide guidance to the Army on training and educating Army personnel within a DL environment. (3)  Coordinate with the DCS, G  1 on development of policies and programs for ACES with respect to DL. (4)  Direct use of Army Learning Content Management Capability (ALCMC) throughout the Army. (5)  Provide guidance to ACOM, ASCC, and DRU on operating in a DL training environment and ensure standardized training and training development policies and procedures. (6)  Resource DL through the PPBE process. (7)  Coordinate with DCS, G  1, support, and fund the development and implementation of all necessary interfaces among DL, personnel management systems, and ATMS. (8)  Coordinate with DCS, G  1 and Commander, TRADOC to validate the instructor contact hour and student/instructor ratio models for DL. (9)  Validate the annual courseware development 1 to N list submitted by Headquarters (HQ), TRADOC. ee.  Provide oversight and guidance for funding of the Armys e-Learning Program. (1)  Encourage Army activities to allow Soldiers and Army Civilians access to Army e-Learning during duty hours for organizational and mission required training to include providing an office location conducive to learning, and off-duty access for RC. (2)  Encourage Army activities to allow IT employees access to Army e-Learning during duty hours for IT self-devel-opment, management, legal compliance, and training. (3)  Encourage Army activities to revise their training processes and ensure that training plans identify the Armys e- Learning offerings as the primary means to meet all IT required skills. ff.  Implement and administer the Army e-Learning Program that provides web-based access to the latest state of the art e-Learning technology for IT skills training and certification preparation and maintenance. (1)  Establish and maintain the e-Learning links to the AKO and ATRRS, and coordinate placement of links with the ALCMC. (2)  Validate with the American Council on Education those courses identified by the contracted Army e-Learning ven-dor that were submitted, recommended, and approved for college credit recommendations. (3)  Ensure compliance with and enforcement of Army e-Learning policy. gg.  Co-chair the SMDR and participate as a voting member in the TRAP. hh.  The One Army School System (1)  Serves as Army Staff lead for implementation of One Army School System. (2)  Ensure the DCS, G  3/5/7 DCS G  37/TR (Training Directorate) serves as the proponent and primary action office responsible for synchronizing the efforts among the ACOMs, ASCCs, DRUs, Army RC, and the Army Staff to achieve full implementation of One Army School System. (3)  Serve as Army Staff proponent for training and training management policy and procedures and the integration of required resources to meet the One Army School System training mission. (4)  Participate in the Training Coordination Council Workshop (TCCW). Coordinate the resolution of all major training mission resource issues and constraints presented to the TCCW. (5)  Ensure resources follow the mission across components. (6)  Co-chair the SMDR ensuring that the output from the TCCW is incorporated in the requirement verification process for the out years. (7)  Co-chair, along with TRADOC, a workgroup of Army stakeholders to review current institutional training force structure requirements to determine the right structure to better support the institutional training mission and total enduring institutional training TDA requirements and authorizations. (8)  Ensure DCS, G  3/5/7, DCS G  37/TR in coordination with ARNG and USAR, will account for the total instructor and training support personnel requirements for RC TASS institutions. ii.  Serve as the proponent for the Army Driver and Operator Standardization Program, per AR 600  55. jj.  Issue training support funds to U.S. Army Corps of Engineer (USACE) and AMC with instructions to use the funds to support Regular Army resident student lodging and directed meal requirements under the ITDLM Program. kk.  As required, designate Army training and education proponents in instances where CG, TRADOC has not already appointed modernization and branch proponents responsible for the development of unit and individual training and the development of TSPs and products for approved training requirements. 2  11.  Deputy Chief of Staff, G  4 The DCS, G  4 will a.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for logistics training, and identify strategies and training resources for logistics train-ing. b.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for officer, warrant officer, enlisted, and Army Civilian logistics and sustainment specialist training in compliance with DCS, G  3/5/7. c.  Ensure integrated product and sustainment support requirements are validated and included in materiel acquisition processes to support USF and full materiel release of programs and systems. d.  Monitor, assess, and recommend to the DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate) appropriate action on AMT as part of integrated product support. e.  Review NET Plans and DET Plans for logistical impacts. Provide comments to MATDEVs and/or TNGDEVs, as appropriate. f.  Exercise HQDA responsibility to ensure the support and maintenance of fielded training support products, as required. g.  Support equipment fill at appropriate requirement levels across the operational readiness cycles. 2  12.  Deputy Chief of Staff, G  8 The DCS, G  8 is responsible for programming, materiel integration, Department of the Army (DA) studies and analysis, and externally directed reviews. The DCS, G  8 will a.  Develop, independently assess, integrate, and synchronize The Army Program in support of The Army Vision and Army Campaign Plan (ACP). b.  Serve as the principal advisor to the CSA on Joint materiel capabilities integration for all doctrine, organizations, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities and policy (DOTMLPF  P) requirements and materiel programs execution over their life cycles. c.  Develop and defend the Army program objective memorandum (POM), and the Future Years Defense Program; includes the independent assessment, integration, and synchronization of the Army POM. d.  Publish POM-build guidance that is capability-centric and based on modernizing or transforming by unit sets. e.  Integrate the six program evaluation group (PEG) submissions during the POM build to ensure USF success. f.  Serve as the USF system-of-systems manager in execution of Army transformation. g.  Coordinate with ACOMs to validate unit set configurations. h.  Approve unit set equipment lists. i.  Support the production, delivery and integration of training and training support for USF sustainable readiness re-quirements to include delivery of first production or procurement items of new equipment to proponent schoolhouses. j.  Develop a risk assessment and management process to gain early visibility into technical and program issues affecting program integration, interoperability, and scheduling. k.  Develop and maintain software-blocking policy, and oversee the implementation process to establish and harmonize software upgrades across the Army. l.  Serve as the proponent for, exercise HQDA responsibility for, and develop policy for the operations research/ systems analysis FA (FA 49) and force management FA (FA 50). 2  13.  Chief, Army Reserve The CAR will a.  Serve dual-hatted as CAR and CG, USARC. In his/her role as CG, USARC, execute training responsibilities as a major subordinate commander of FORSCOM in accordance with paragraph 2  23. b.  Serve as the HQDA adviser on USAR training and leader development matters, and coordinate such with the ASCCs with USAR training responsibilities (for example, USAREUR and USARPAC). c.  Ensure USAR units are organized, trained, and prepared for mobilization and commitment to war and other missions in support of the CCDR or as otherwise directed in accordance with this regulation and AR 10  87. d.  Publish an Army Reserve Training Strategy. e.  Implement, review, and provide supplemental guidance on any DOD, HQDA, and ACOM/ASCC/DRU policies for organization, operations, training, mobilization, and deployment of USAR forces. f.  Review and provide input for updates to Army training strategies which include capabilities and needs of USAR forces. Strategies include training policies/resourcing of training readiness, METL, CATS, weapons qualification, physical fitness, TSS, Distributed Learning System, and Army Training Information System). g.  Plan, program, budget, and execute USAR appropriations (that is, reserve pay & allowances, operations & mainte-nance, USAR, military construction, Army Reserve, National Guard Reserve equipment account) to support requirements of the Army Reserve Training Strategy. h.  Represent the USAR in the ADLP. i.  Review all STRAP. j.  Establish priorities to support training requirements for USAR units and execute training support (the sustainable range program, training support center, MTC, and LVC integrated training environment IT (ITE) operations) at USAR funded installations (Fort McCoy, WI; Fort Hunter Liggett, CA; ASADix, NJ; Devens RFTA, MA, Fort Buchanan, PR; and Camp Parks, CA) and local training areas. Develop policy, procedures, and standards for training USAR AGR Sol-diers. l.  Conduct selection boards for professional development courses for USAR Soldiers. m.  Participate in the SMDR, TACITS, and TCCW in accordance with AR 350  10. Identify USAR institutional training needs (for example, individual and leader education training requirements). Identify One Army School System/ TASS support constraints in manpower, infrastructure, services and equipment to TRADOC. n.  Develop, in coordination with the ACOMs, ASCCs, and/or DRUs, policy for access, use, and management of ATRRS for USAR forces. o.  Coordinate with ASCC for ODT. p.  Recommend policy on professional career development of Soldiers in the USAR. q.  Establish policy and procedures for the development, validation, and maintenance of the USAR non-prior service and in-service individual training requirements. r.  Ensure attendance of qualified officers, NCOs, and Soldiers at OES and NCOPDS courses, are consistent with Army training policies and priorities. s.  Determine and document institutional training force structure requirements (for example, instructors, support per-sonnel, equipment, TADSS, MDEPs) to support the institutional training mission. t.  Assist with TSS planning, and monitor USAR unit use of U.S. Army Installation Management (IMCOM) executed training enabler resources that support senior commander-directed training programs. u.  Develop an implementation plan to meet the intent of, and support the ALDS and place emphasis on leader develop-ment across all cohorts (officers, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers, and Army Civilians). v.  Ensure subordinate commands/Soldiers are aware of and understand the ITDLM Program and authorized / approved Institutional Training travel entitlements. w.  Issue USAR training support funds to USACE and AMC through GFEBS with instructions to use the funds to support USAR resident student lodging and directed meal requirements under the ITDLM Program. x.  Support TADLP (1)  Serve as the Proponent for DL in the USAR, and implements the USAR DL Program. (2)  Coordinate with TRADOC for additional resource requirements to deliver DL courses, such as specialized training aids, manpower, and equipment. Supports the SMDR and the TRAP to identify all resource requirements for DL course delivery. (3)  Coordinate with TRADOC to develop and implement an automated training and education design capability. (4)  Coordinate with TRADOC to develop and implement a DL reach-back and lifelong-learning capability. (5)  Serve as the office of primary responsibility for the training and technology components of DL within the USAR. (6)  Ensure interoperability of USAR DL technologies with TADLP. (7)  Provide and sustain USAR DL technologies. (8)  Provide access for U.S. Army active duty and reserve Soldiers at USAR DL classrooms (DLC) in accordance with the cross component resourcing agreement. (9)  Synchronize DL courseware development prioritization with TCM TADLP. (10)  Review DL courseware and provides concurrence for CAD and POIs. (11)  Use the ALCMC to: (a)  Coordinate and schedule the delivery of DL training through ATRRS between the originating sources and receiving locations. (b)  Provide skills-gap analysis associated with tasks and ITPs (skills gap analysis allows commanders, supervisors, instructors, and others to do a database query on any subordinate to determine what skills are associated with the subordi-nates assignment, skill level, MOS, and history of received training). (c)  Manage students, as necessary, within DL phases, modules, and lessons. (d)  Manage, assign, and deliver learning resources required to support DL when and where needed. 2  14.  Chief of Engineers The COE will a.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for engineer training and identify strategies and resources for engineer training. b.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for functional aspects of officer, warrant officer, enlisted, and Army Civilian engineer specialist training. c.  Develop and coordinate the Armys position on Joint engineer training. d.  Provide technical advice and assistance to the Army Staff pertaining to facilities, military engineering, and geospatial individual and unit training. e.  Provide guidance for exercise related construction planning and construction design training. 2  15.  The Surgeon General TSG will a.  Develop policy and manage and provide clinical and technical professional medical training and education to support training and education. This includes medical training for individuals and units not in the AMEDD and medical training under special circumstances, such as chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear (CBRN), and explosive defense conditions. b.  Develop field medical support concepts, doctrine, training, education, and user tests. c.  Provide AMT for medical materiel for medical units. d.  Monitor, evaluate, and provide guidance for improving the status of medical training readiness as reflected in unit status reports for AMEDD units. e.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for combat lifesaver training, medical intelligence training, and medical mobilization training. f.  Provide guidance for medical, physiological, and health areas related to physical readiness and managing the Cardi-ovascular Screening Program (CVSP). g.  Develop, coordinate, and monitor programs for training foreign nationals in MEDCOM schools and facilities. h.  Maintain HQDA supervision and plan, program, and budget for NET for medical materiel. 2  16.  Assistant Chief of Staff for Installation Management The ACSIM will a.  Develop policy and guidance for assistance in land acquisition and military construction (MILCON) in support of the range and training land program in accordance with AR 420  1. b.  Establish the guidelines for base operations support (BASOPS)/sustainment, revitalization, and modernization (SRM) support of installation and unit training strategies. c.  Plan, program, and budget BASOPS and/or SRM at RA and USAR installations to enable training strategies and Soldier quality of life. d.  Ensure facilities acquisition is integrated into and synchronized with materiel acquisition, in coordination with DCS, G  3/5/7, DCS, G  8, and CIO/G  6. e.  Identify unit set fielding (USF) facility/installation pacing items. In coordination with DCS, G  3/5/7, DCS, G  8, and MATDEVs; coordinate prioritization and funding for these items as part of unit set fielding integration reviews. f.  Provide support to gaining ACOMs and installations which are developing facilities, training infrastructure, and other installation support requirements for Unit Set Fielding, in coordination with the IMCOM and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. g.  Plan, program, and budget BASOPS/SRM and MILCON at RA installations to support the institutional training mission. h.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for Army Civilian career management, training, and education within Career Program (CP) 27 (Housing Management) and CP 29 (Installation Management). 2  17.  The Judge Advocate General TJAG will a.  Develop and administer the curriculum, doctrine, standards, and delivery of legal education and training for attorneys (military and Army Civilian), warrant officers, legal paraprofessionals, paralegal NCOs and specialists in the Judge Ad-vocate Legal Service and provide input on training requirements to the DCS, G  1 in support of the SMDR and TRAP processes. b.  Advise DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate); DCS, G  1; and CG, TRADOC, during the development of training and training support products for the Army including training programs mandated by domestic and international law obli-gations. c.  Develop training support products for Army-wide legal training. d.  Assign JAGC officers to Direct Commission Course, Judge Advocate Officer Basic Course and either the Judge Advocate Officers Graduate Course or the Reserve Judge Advocate Officers Advanced Course. e.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for training on the law of war. f.  Administer the Funded Legal Education Program according to AR 27  1. g.  Establish professional and educational policies and procedures for the JAGC. h.  Direct education, training and functions of The Judge Advocate Generals Legal Center and School. i.  Program and budget resources to meet requirements. 2  18.  Chief of Chaplains The CCH will a.  Develop and publish the chaplaincy training strategy. b.  Develop and publish annual training guidance for the chaplain corps. c.  Develop professional and educational policies and procedures for the chaplain corps. d.  Establish chaplain career training objectives. e.  Provide professional training for chaplains, religious affairs specialist, chaplain candidates and directors of religious education. f.  Select and schedule active duty chaplains to attend Army and non-Army schools. g.  Assign active duty chaplains to attend the Chaplain Basic Officer Leader Course, the Chaplains Captains Career Course (C4), and branch functional courses. h.  Direct training and function of the U.S. Army Chaplain Center and School. i.  Direct the training and function of the U.S. Army Family Life Chaplain Training Centers. j.  Program and budget resources to meet training requirements. k.  Ensure that the chaplain corps is trained to provide religious support across the full range of military operations. l.  Ensure seamless integration of religious support doctrine and training throughout the Army. m.  Develop and provide training at selected Army schools on topics to include ethics, world religions, moral leadership, spiritual fitness, and Soldier and Family readiness. n.  Provide specialized training to chaplains in the following areas: Resource Management, and Logistics; Family Life Ministry; Family Life Ministry Supervisor; Clinical Pastoral Education; Clinical Pastoral Education Supervisor; Chaplain Clinical Ethicist; Ethics; World Religions; and Strong Bonds. o.  Exercise HQDA responsibility for moral leadership in the Army. 2  19.  Provost Marshal General The PMG will a.  Develop policy and provide management and technical oversight of the Armys policing functions, including law enforcement, criminal investigations, criminal intelligence fusion, corrections, forensics, physical security, high risk per-sonnel security, AT and detention operations. b.  Serve as the responsible official to the SECARMYs Department of Defense Executive Agent responsibilities for Forensics, Level III Corrections, Detainee Operations policy, eGuardian Suspicious Activity Reporting System and Civil-ian Police and Guards Training and Fitness Standards. Serves the Secretary of the Army (Executive Agent) as the Respon-sible Official and Executive Manager for DOD Biometrics. 2  20.  Office of the Chief of Staff Army, Director, Senior Leader Development Office The Director, SLDO will a.  Manage the Regular Army population of general officers, O6s and promotable O  5s in accordance with established laws and policies, who have attended developmental opportunities outlined in chapter 3 at the direction of Army senior leadership to meet national security requirements, (except officers within the Medical Corps, Dental Corps, Veterinarian Corps, Chaplain Corps, Acquisition Corps and JAGC).  b.  Manage colonels and promotable lieutenant colonels and program officers in coordination with HRC and HQDA, DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate) for CSA Senior Army Fellowships, Senior Service College (SSC), USAWC Fellow-ships, nonmilitary education level (MEL) 1 fellowships, internships, Army schools, and non-Army schools. c.  Manage officers selected to command at the general officer and colonel level ensuring completion of appropriate command preparation development opportunities. d.  Institute future programs at the strategic level to encourage officer development; thereby, advancing the inherent talents, experiences, and leadership skills of a combined force of senior leaders at the enterprise level. 2  21.  Commanders of Army commands, Army service component commands, and direct reporting units The Commanders of ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs will a.  Develop an implementation plan to support the ALDS and place emphasis on leader development across all cohorts (officers, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers, and Army Civilians). b.  Manage NCOPDS courses taught in regional NCO academies (NCOAs). c.  Ensure attendance of qualified officers, NCOs, and Soldiers at OES and NCOPDS courses, consistent with Army training policies and priorities. d.  Manage training quotas allocated to their command, and Soldier attendance. e.  Manage Basic Leader Course (BLC) training seats and attendance. f.  Ensure officers, NCOs and Soldiers are aware of the following: (1)  The OES and NCOPDS courses established for their MOS. (2)  The importance of OES and NCOPDS attendance and training to individual MOS proficiency, career progression, developmental timelines, cadre development, and unit readiness. g.  Ensure promotable Soldiers are scheduled to attend resident NCOPDS courses at the time of selection for promotion, and officers attend OES in accordance with policies established in this regulation. h.  Select Soldiers to attend the BLC in accordance with the policies established in this regulation. i.  Program and budget for associated temporary duty travel costs related to attendance to BLC, ALC, SLC, and func-tional training. j.  Ensure Army Civilians attend CES education at the time of selection in accordance with policies established in this regulation. k.  Ensure subordinate commanders with acquisition workforce personnel take responsibility for the education, training, and career development of their AAC/AAW personnel to include planning for and releasing AAC/AAW personnel to participate in training, education, and developmental opportunities. l.  Support compliance with Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act and DOD-directed acquisition position qualifications and certification requirements. m.  Ensure when commanders receive new, improved, or modified equipment (1)  Develop facility, training support infrastructure, training support, and management support resource requirements to execute USF. (2)  Review, update, and provide input to the NET Plans. (3)  Assist the MATDEV and TNGDEV to determine prerequisites (MOS, skills, and grade) for attending training con-ducted by the new equipment training team (NETT). (4)  Augment, as appropriate, NETT with personnel when beyond MATDEVs or providers capability (as identified and agreed to in NET Plan), and request availability and stabilization of personnel receiving NET and designated NETT mem-bers in support of the NET Plan. (5)  Provide installation support to include billeting, tactical vehicle transportation, and food services to NETT as avail-able and required on a reimbursable basis. (6)  Ensure personnel receiving training from NETT meet the requirements of DA Pam 600  8. (7)  Provide an after-action report to MATDEV subsequent to completion of training by NETT. (8)  Assist capability developer (CAPDEV) in preparing combat developments feedback data and assist MATDEV and TNGDEV in preparing DET plans as required. (9)  Notify HRC of any MOS or ASI awarded as a result of AMT. (10)  Program, budget, fund travel and per diem for ACOM personnel to attend NET courses (except NET team mem-bers), and provide DET information to CAR. (11)  Manage DET for USAR units, as required, in conjunction with MATDEV and TNGDEV. Assist ARNG units receiving DET, when required. n.  Ensure that if the command is the training proponent for a Soldier training course per paragraph 5  13 , appendix F, or otherwise designated by DCS, G  3/5/7 (1)  Develop TSPs for the course and, if requested, provide the TSP to other ACOMs. Course TSPs will be developed following the guidance published in appropriate TRADOC publications. TSPs will include standardized course prerequi-sites and standardized certification tests. The ACOM points of contact can secure information about TSPs developed by proponent ACOMs and Training/TATS courseware development from HQ, TRADOC. (2)  Approve any TSPs developed by other ACOMs for the course. o.  Ensure that if the command uses proponent-developed Soldier training courses (1)  Ensure installations maintain historical records of Soldier training that include: (a)  Location of Soldier training courses. (b)  Courses taught. (c)  Number of students enrolled per course and number of students graduated per course. (d)  Costs for each course in terms of dollars, manpower, equipment, and facilities. (2)  Ensure installations conduct only Soldier training courses that have been validated by an annual needs assessment. When requested by DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate), summarize the needs assessment for each training course con-tracted by subordinate installations. Address training courses previously approved by HQDA for contracting and any new courses for which authority for contracting has been requested. As a minimum: (a)  Identify the performance shortfall and its effect on the accomplishment of the units mission essential tasks. (b)  Establish training that will correct the performance shortfall. (c)  Identify any inefficiency or inability of the unit chain of command to conduct training. (d)  Evaluate available training alternatives and document selection of the most cost-effective alternative. (3)  Ensure Soldier training courses are developed or approved by the proponent ACOM. (4)  Establish in local regulations the maximum number of Soldiers per unit that can be trained or cross-trained in each Soldier training course. (5)  Regulate the required minimum retention time in the unit after completing a Soldier training course. (6)  Regulate the minimum class size, which enables training to be canceled without cost if the minimum course size cannot be achieved. (7)  Ensure active duty military personnel employed as off-duty instructors avoid conflicts of interest (see DOD 5500.07  R (Joint Ethics regulation)). (8)  Provide, when requested, DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate), a projection of Soldier training course expenditures for the next fiscal year. p.  Conduct amphibious training within the command as required to support operational and contingency missions. q.  Mobile training teams for PME. (1)  The primary instructional method of delivery for PME training is resident training. All requests for an exception to conduct PME resident training by a MTT must be approved by DCS G  3/7. Units requesting use of PME training MTT will submit a memorandum through their chain of command, through TRADOC, DCS, G  1 (DAPE  MPT), to HQDA G  3/7 (Training Directorate) for approval. (2)  The requesting unit must agree to resource all MTT costs unless this training is directed by HQDA. The requesting unit must justify the MTT request, examples include: deployment, overseas contingency operations mission, assigned to a conduct defense CBRNE (CBRNE) or global response force (GRF) mission. The requesting units memorandum must state what their training requirements are, to include course, name, number of personnel to be trained and that this exceeds TRADOC, ARNG, or USAR resident schools capacity to train them. TRADOC schools MTT request will be submitted through TRADOC, to assess the schools ability to conduct the MTT. Non-TRADOC schools (AMC schools, U.S. Army Criminal Investigations Laboratory (USACIL), Judge Advocate General Legal Center and School (JAGLCS), U.S. Army Medical Department Center and School (AMEDDCS), and JFK Special Warfare center and School (JFKSWCS)) will submit their MTT request directly to DCS, G  3/7 TR for approval. r.  Provide all equipment requirements at home station to support MTTs. s.  Manage and execute training travel funds in support of RA Soldiers assigned. t.  Ensure commanders of ASCCs, in coordination with DCS, G  1, DCS, G  2, DCS, G  3/5/7, and TRADOC, annually review the strategic language list for training. (See chap 9  for additional details).  u.  Support TADLP (1)  Provide input to HQDA through the TACITS and TRAP into ATRRS for student load requirements for each sched-uled DL course in accordance with AR 350  10. (2)  Participate in the DL courseware development prioritization process with TCM, TADLP. (3)  Ensure unit commanders support attendance of their Soldiers during the duty day at DA directed and quota managed DL courses, and ensure that Soldiers receive timely notification and administrative instructions associated with attending DL courses. (a)  For active duty Soldiers, the duty day for DA directed, quota managed, and structured self-development asynchro-nous DL attendance is defined as 0900  1700 Monday through Friday. The duty day for synchronous DL attendance is defined by the class schedule in ATRRS. (b)  For reserve component Soldiers not on active duty, the duty day will be an inactive duty training (IDT) period or an additional IDT period. (4)  Coordinate with TRADOC for additional resource requirements to deliver DL courses, such as specialized training aids, manpower, and equipment. Supports the SMDR and the TRAP to identify all resource requirements for DL course delivery. (5)  Coordinate DL training development and initiatives with the Army responsible official for training (TRADOC). (6)  Coordinate DL training requirements with DCS, G  1 to ensure ATRRS entries include: (a)  Selection of Soldiers for DL courses in accordance with the appropriate priorities and prerequisites. (b)  Verification that Soldiers satisfy prerequisites before participating in DL courses. (7)  Update ATRRS with (a)  Current and future DL locations and constraints. (b)  CAD. (c)  DL class schedules. (d)  Student course and phase enrollment information. (e)  Student progress through course phase, module, and lesson. (f)  Student course and phase completion information. (8)  Establish contingency plans to conduct training should an equipment malfunction or site availability problem occur. (9)  Identify marginal or failing students and notify designated individuals or activities, such as the student, class man-ager, instructor, and commander. (10)  Coordinate with operational ACOM for additional resource requirements to deliver DL courses, such as specialized training aids, manpower, and equipment. Ensure that the SMDR and the TRAP identify all resource requirements for DL course delivery. (11)  Use the ALCMC to (a)  Coordinate and schedule the delivery of DL training through ATRRS between the originating sources and receiving locations. (b)  Provide skills-gap analysis associated with tasks and ILPs (skills gap analysis allows commanders, supervisors, instructors, and others to do a database query on any subordinate to determine what skills are associated with the subordi-nates assignment, skill level, MOS, and history of received training). (c)  Manage students, as necessary, within DL phases, modules, and lessons. (d)  Manage, assign, and deliver learning resources required to support DL when and where needed. (12)  Coordinate with TRADOC to develop and implement an automated training and education design capability. (13)  Coordinate with TRADOC to develop and implement a DL reach-back and lifelong-learning capability. v.  Maintain knowledge of AR 340  21 and AR 25  55. w.  Incorporate, as applicable, ITDLM Program requirements in Command Inspection Program. x.  Develop an implementation plan to meet the intent of, and support the ALDS and place emphasis on leader develop-ment across all cohorts (officers, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers, and Army Civilians). 2  22.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Forces Command The CG, FORSCOM, will a.  Serve as the Armys responsible official to coordinate and synchronize Force Generation, per AR 525  29. b.  Train and evaluate Army forces in accordance with this regulation, AR 10  87 and AR 140  1. c.  Serve as the force provider for Army conventional forces and, as such, will execute the functions, duties, and respon-sibilities of a Service Force Provider as required by the Secretary of Defense. Specific to the Service Force Provider mis-sion, the SECARMY delegated to FORSCOM the training and readiness oversight responsibility over RC conventional forces in the continental United States (CONUS) that includes Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands, which are not assigned to a CCMD. d.  Train, mobilize, deploy, sustain, transform and reconstitute assigned conventional forces to meet the needs of CCDRs. Validate that assigned units are prepared for deployment. e.  Provide input and assistance as needed to update the Armys maneuver and weapons training strategies. f.  Responsible for NTC and the JRTC. Man NTC/JRTC observer, coach, trainer requirements. g.  Exercise responsibility for NTC, JRTC and MCTP scheduling. h.  Coordinate and synchronize, as the Army lead agent, unit-level unified land operations training. (1)  Support the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) Joint Exercise and Training Program, Chairmans Exercise Program, and when delegated, the National Exercise Program. (2)  Exercise responsibility for the CONUS Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training (JA/ATT) Program (see ap-pendix H). (3)  Advocate per Joint Staff directed timelines and process (CJCSI 3500.01H) for all unified action partner capabilities for Home Station Training, CTC and other Army sponsored exercises, tests, and experiments (Network Integration). (4)  Consider unified action partner operating environment training opportunities in support of Overseas Deployment Training. (5)  Publish the CTC calendar to codify CTC events scheduled during the Army Synchronization and Resourcing Pro-cess (ASRP)/Army Synchronization and Resourcing Conferences (ASRC). (6)  Lead Army efforts in support of the Joint National Training Center, other unit-based training transformation events and other JS J7 Joint training initiatives. (7)  As the Army Service Force Provider, coordinate Army Joint Training Coordination Program requests of other Ser-vice Force Providers for sister service interoperability to other ACOM/ASCC training events. (8)  Assess Security Assistance Force and Joint Task Force-North/ARNORTH requests for unified action partner train-ing value and collaborate with U.S. Army Security Assistance Command to leverage these events as METL relevant train-ing. i.  Provide equipment support for training programs at TASS organizations, as requested and available. j.  Provide trained units to develop and test Army organization, equipment, and doctrine. k.  Assist with TSS planning, and monitor FORSCOM unit use of IMCOM executed training enabler resources that support Senior Commander directed training programs. l.  The CG, USARC (1)  Command USAR troop program units (TPUs) and reinforcement training units in CONUS other than forces as-signed in 10 USC 167. (2)  Ensure USARC units are organized, trained, and prepared for mobilization and commitment to war and other mis-sions in support of the CCDR or as otherwise directed. (3)  Publish command training guidance which addresses USAR forces. (4)  Implement, review, and provide supplemental guidance on any DOD, HQDA, and ACOM/ASCC/DRU policies for operations, training, mobilization, and deployment of USARC forces. (5)  Manage the combat support training program (CSTP). (6)  Support the JCS Joint Exercise and Training Program with USAR. (7)  Monitor and provide oversight to USAR forces participation in ODT that improve training readiness. (8)  Review and provide input for updates to Army training strategies which include capabilities and needs of USARC forces. (9)  Ensure subordinate commands/soldiers are aware of and understand the ITDLM Program and authorized/approved Institutional Training travel entitlements. (10)  Issue USAR training support funds to USACE and AMC through GFEBS and with instructions to use the funds to support USAR resident student lodging and directed meal requirements under the ITDLM Program. (11)  Manage CSTP. m.  Participate in the TACITS, SMDR, and TRAP in accordance with AR 350  10. n.  Provide command and control for Troop Schools in FORSCOM. o.  Establish priorities to support and forecast training requirements for RA units within sustainable readiness schedules. p.  Review the relevance of the AWT in support of theater operations, annually, in coordination with TRADOC and the USAIS. q.  Support execution of the ASRP. r.  Execute the Armys Parent Service Validation responsibilities for deploying CONUS conventional ARNG and USAR units, as HQDA responsible official. s.  Support, upon request, the training of ARNG/USAR units in CONUS in accordance with current guidance on RC training. CG FORSCOM, in coordination with RC components, will develop processes and procedures to prioritize, sched-ule, coordinate and implement RA pre-mobilization training support to RC units. t.  Establish criteria and oversee/validate pre-deployment training of ARNG/USAR units in CONUS. u.  Oversee the scheduling of the Force Generation Platform Plan to mobilize, train, and deploy RC units. v.  Assist DCS, G  2, and U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command (INSCOM) in implementation and sustainment of Foundry training programs to support commanders requirements as outlined in AR 350  32. w.  Develop, in accordance with TRADOC and INSCOM, warfighting function training standards for mission readiness. x.  Plan and program MILCON, MCA, projects to support senior commanders MCA mission requirements. y.  Support Army Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. 2  23.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command The CG, TRADOC will a.  Administer training functions outlined in this regulation and AR 10  87. b.  Serve as the Army SRO and principal lead for the training, education and leader development processes. Develop training doctrine and execute training policies and procedures as directed by HQDA. (1)  Designate Army training and education proponents from among TRADOC-assigned force modernization and branch proponents responsible for the development of unit and individual training and the development of TSPs and prod-ucts for approved training requirements. (2)  Serve as the Armys lead for training and education development products and processes. (3)  Develop, publish and sustain training management doctrinal products (see ADP 7  0, ADRP 7  0, and/or /FM 7  0), supporting pamphlets, and web access (ATN). (4)  Develop and implement TASS policies and procedures. (5)  Develop and update an ALDS based on guidance from DA senior leaders; SA; ASA (M&RA); ASA (Financial Management and Comptroller); CSA; VCSA; Sergeant Major of the Army (SMA); DCS, G  1; DCS, G  3/5/7; DCS, G  8; and other HQDA principals, as required. (6)  Assess the ALDP and related policies to ensure they are consistent with the Army Leader Development Strategy. c.  Lead, shape, manage and execute leader development for the Army through the ALDP. (1)  Direct the execution of the ALDP. (2)  Synchronize ALDP initiatives and recommend policy revisions to DCS, G  3/5/7. (3)  Recommend prioritizations and allocation of ALDP resources to the CSA. (4)  Assess and periodically report on the status of the ALDP, identify gaps, develop and recommend solutions, as directed by the CSA. d.  Serve as the Army lead agent for Army training information systems and ensure continuity in training management (unit and institution) and TSS from legacy to future capabilities. e.  Serve as the Army lead agent for DL implementation, and provide oversight for DL implementation and integration throughout the life of the program. (1)  Appoint and charter a TCM for TADLP. (2)  Provide regulatory guidance and processes for the prioritization, design, development, and implementation of DL courseware and delivery methods. (3)  Provide recommended times to complete training for students and commanders, based on academic hours and tech-nical content of the course. (4)  Approve development of all courseware. (5)  Assemble, prioritize and validate the annual courseware development 1 to N list for the U.S. Army, ARNG, and USAR. (6)  Direct and coordinate the installation and sustainment of DL facilities and infrastructure with the Program Executive Office (PEO) Enterprise Information Systems (EIS) Product Lead, Distributed Learning System (DLS). (7)  Coordinate and facilitate the integration of DL facilities. (8)  Coordinate DL training requirements with DCS, G  1 to ensure ATRRS entries include (a)  Selection of Soldiers for DL courses in accordance with the appropriate priorities and prerequisites. (b)  Verification that Soldiers satisfy prerequisites before participating in DL courses. (c)  Maximum utilization of seats in DL facilities. (9)  Update ATRRS with (a)  Current and future DL locations and constraints. (b)  CAD. (c)  DL class schedules. (d)  Student course and phase input information. (e)  Student progress through course phase, module, and lesson. (f)  Student course and phase completion information. (10)  Establish contingency plans to conduct training should an equipment malfunction or site availability problem oc-curs. (11)  Establish administrative procedures for tracking student progress through DL content / course phases, modules, and lessons for input into ATRRS. (12)  Identify marginal or failing students and notify designated individuals or activities, such as the student, class man-ager, instructor, and commander. (13)  Provide and coordinate requirements with the PD DLS to procure, install, staff, and maintain digital training facil-ities (DTF). (14)  Provide and coordinate requirements with the PD DLS for the development and implementation of the deployed digital training campus. (15)  Coordinate with ACOMs for additional resource requirements to deliver DL content/courses, such as specialized training aids, manpower, and equipment. Ensure that the SMDR and the TRAP identify all resource requirements for DL course delivery. (16)  Ensure that the ALCMC is in place to (a)  Coordinate and schedule the delivery of DL training through ATRRS between the originating sources and receiving locations. (b)  Provide skills and knowledge-gap analysis associated with tasks and ILPs (skills gap analysis allows commanders, supervisors, instructors, and others to do a database query on any subordinate to determine what skills are associated with the subordinates assignment, skill level, MOS, and history of received training). (c)  Manage students, as necessary, within DL phases, modules, and lessons. (d)  Manage, assign, and deliver learning resources required to support DL when and where needed. (17)  Coordinate the development and implementation of necessary interfaces between DL and existing and future per-sonnel, training, operational, Joint, and learning management systems through ATRRS. (18)  Coordinate the development and implementation of an automated training and education design capability. (19)  Coordinate the development and implementation of DL reach-back and lifelong-learning capability. (20)  Coordinate the development and implementation of an Army training help desk supporting DL students. (21)  Develop instructor contact hour and student-instructor ratio formulas for DL, and submits formulas to the U.S. Army Manpower Analysis Agency for validation. Coordinate with DCS, G  1 to implement instructor contact hour and student-instructor ratio formulas in ATRRS. f.  Develop, promulgate, and implement procedures to provide for quality control and quality assurance of Army training doctrine development, training products, and training management programs in accordance with the ATS and ALDS by (1)  Serving as the Army functional proponent for training management, doctrinal products (see ADP/ADRP/FM 7  0), ATMS, Army Training Network, CATS, Standard METL and DTMS. In coordination with DCS, G  3/5/7, G  37 Collec-tive Training Division exercise HQDA responsibility, supervision and management of ATMS providing, technical, func-tional, and operational support to the Army and DOD. Ensure that doctrinal products (ADP/ADRP/FM 7  0, ATMS Army Training Network, CATS, METL, DTMS) and Home Station Master Plan are maintained, periodically reevaluated, syn-chronized and comply with and implement the guidance provided in this regulation. (2)  Developing policy and guidance for the management, planning, development, and implementation of collective training and for preparing collective training products. (3)  Identifying and prioritizing training resources required by ATMS, Army Training Network, DTMS, CATS, and METL. (4)  Serving as the Armys task (collective and individual) and CATS manager. (5)  Exercising quality assurance and quality control over training development and collective training. (6)  Developing related individual TSPs for individual training in service schools and units. (7)  Supporting the evolution of the Joint Training System and its automation. (8)  Developing training strategies for the Army by: (a)  Developing maneuver and weapons training strategies (CATS and DA Pam 350  38) for training in units and pro-grams of instruction for TRADOC courses. (b)  Identifying training resources required by those strategies. g.  Assist DCS, G  3/5/7 with administration and integration of the CTC Program. Provide the training model for CTCs to include the Decisive Action Training Environment and other operational environment support opposing forces models, accreditation criteria, CTC resources, CTC master plan, and MCTP observer, coach, trainer requirements. Execute addi-tional responsibilities in accordance with AR 350  50. h.  Command the MCTP. Man observer, coach, trainer requirements. i.  Manage the enlisted, warrant officer, and officer individual training and military education programs, including courseware, training support products, and TADSS. j.  Design, develop, and distribute military and Civilian training and education programs and products in support of individual and unit training. k.  Integrate Army leadership doctrine in all training programs of the schools and training centers for officers, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers, and Army Civilians at progressive and sequential phases of career development. l.  Ensure TNGDEV for AMT (1)  Work in concert with the other CAPDEV and MATDEV to identify and document training and training support product requirements. (2)  Validate all the training products provided by the MATDEVs and TNGDEVs prior to the first unit equipped (FUE) date by the TRADOC proponent. (3)  Document the AMT strategy and the required associated NET and training support products to provide the TRADOC proponent with the necessary material so the Generating Force is prepared to implement the new training into the Operational Force by FUE, with complete transition not later than 1 year after FUE. (4)  Enable Army training activities by ensuring training requirements are identified in the appropriate Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) capability requirement documents. (5)  Ensure NET and multimedia TSPs are provided in a timely manner to units conducting AWEs and advanced tech-nology demonstrations in coordination with DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate), and MATDEV or provider. (6)  Identify requirements for TADSS to be fielded to the training base prior to the start of a designated USF window. (7)  Identify institutional training requirements to support USF modernization/modularization training and submit re-quirements as part of the POM build. (8)  Begin the institutional training portion of AMT no later than 12 months after FUE. Exceptions to this policy will include: systems fielded in such low density that institutional training is not warranted and NET or unit sustainment TSP will satisfy the training needed for the life of the system; or a system that is fielded in such low densities over an extended fielding schedule that it does not warrant beginning institutional training until a significant density level is achieved and NET or unit sustainment TSP will be used in the interim. (9)  Assist MATDEV or provider in preparing and updating NET Plans. (10)  Determine ammunition requirements to support AMT in coordination with MATDEV for forecasting by the gain-ing commands. (11)  Assess AMT effectiveness. (12)  Establish mobile training teams or provide DL remedial instruction when approved by DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate). (13)  Refer unresolved AMT issues to DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate). m.  Exercise responsibility for the capability development and training development aspects of the operational environ-ment and OPFOR Program in accordance with AR 350  2. n.  Assist HQDA with the management of TADSS requirements documentation, TADSS assets, the graphic training aid program, TADLP, DA Pam 350  38, range modernization and standardization, international military training and education under the Security Assistance Training Program, training standardization policy, and TASS. o.  Maintain the capability to advise DCS, G  3/5/7 on all matters regarding physical readiness research, policy, and performance standards and to assist in the execution of the Army Physical Readiness Training Program in units, training base schools, and mobilization sites to include physical readiness for individuals/units, Future Soldier, initial-entry, preg-nancy/post-partum, combatives, and water survival. The Commanding General, U.S. Army Center for Initial Military Training (USACIMT), through the U.S. Army Physical Fitness School of the Leader Training Brigade, provides guidance concerning theories and principles of human performance and exercise science as informed by empirical research, institu-tional best practices and experiential learning to drive PRTP doctrine including periodized individual/unit training pro-grams and performance standards. Following the Army Human Dimension Strategy (F2025B) the PRTP focuses on the force, the unit and the individual. The most important aspect of the PRTP is developing the physical and functional capacity of the individual Soldiers in preparation for combat. Expertise should be supported by professional certification from organizations like the American College of Sports Medicine, the National Strength and Conditioning Association, the American Council on Exercise, and the Cooper Aerobics Research Institute. Moreover, because personal health and fitness is a critical enabler to effective leadership in an era of persistent conflict, the CG, USACIMT will take the lead in holistic health and fitness by developing and sustaining leader enhancement programs during PME to reset and strengthen the resiliency and hardiness of Officer, NCO, WO, and Army Civilian leaders. These programs will ensure leaders better understand the linkages between mental and physical readiness and professional development, thereby mitigating the po-tential effects of operational fatigue. p.  Assist the DCS, G  3/5/7 (Director of Training), to develop, field, and sustain the capability to rapidly adapt training development and training management systems (for example ATMS). q.  Manage the institutional portion of the ALDP, to include the production and dissemination of leadership training materials and the integration of military and Army Civilian development courses. r.  Establish doctrine and recommend policy for managing individual (enlisted and officer) and unit training. s.  Maintain administrative control over designated DOD schools. t.  Exercise responsibility and manage Army training for foreign military and Civilian personnel in the United States. u.  Ensure the development and production of all Electronic Publishing Management System materials required to sup-port training. v.  Develop and execute individual and collective training and training support to meet the Armys training and readiness goals. This includes the development of TATS courseware; extension training products; and TSPs for individual, school, and unit use. x.  Serve as the Armys individual and collective training task manager and (1)  Receive external training requirements and conduct training needs analyses to determine applicability for individual and collective training. (2)  Designate Army training proponents responsible to develop TSPs and products for approved individual and collec-tive training requirements. (3)  Manage the development of vertically and horizontally aligned officer (to include pre-commissioning), warrant officer, and noncommissioned officer training. (4)  Manage common Soldier shared and branch-specific individual and collective tasks. (5)  Review the relevance of the AWT Program in support of decisive actions, biennially, in coordination with FORSCOM; TRADOC Deputy Commanding General (DCG) IMT; and the Maneuver CoE. Provide storage of, access to, and distribution of common task information resources. (6)  Include common tasks in officer (to include pre-commissioning), warrant officer, noncommissioned officer, and Army Civilian training, as appropriate. (7)  Ensure the application of common task training throughout TASS to include the coordination of pre-commissioning tasks taught by the USMA and National Guard Academies. y.  Review POIs for institutional training courses to ensure compliance with established policies. (Exceptions are: AMC schools, the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Laboratory, The Judge Advocate Generals Legal Center and School, AMEDD Center and School, John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School, and Army Acquisition Center of Ex-cellence (AACoE).) In accomplishing this responsibility, the CG, TRADOC, will (1)  Serve as the Army member on the ITRO executive board and review training courses of other services to eliminate duplication, reduce costs, and standardize instruction in compliance with AR 351  9. (2)  Coordinate the TRAS. (3)  Coordinate changes in course prerequisites and implementation dates at least 12 months in advance. (4)  Obtain DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate) approval on proposed changes which result in resource increases, such as, new courses, course length, class-size and changes to prerequisites causing additional resources for RC courses and training conducted under the control of TRADOC. (a)  Budget year and execution year changes.  All TRADOC POI changes with RC resource requirement increases and/or TRADOC cumulative resource requirement increases of one half million dollars or more during a fiscal year require submission to HQDA for approval. TRADOC will submit TRADOC new courses, course changes with resource increases, courses with RC resource increases, RC taught courses with resource requirement increases and/or cumulative resource requirement increase by one half million dollars to the next quarterly Institutional CoC. The Institutional CoC Co-chairs will verify the POI changes and develop a proposed way ahead. The POI changes will then be forwarded to the next available TGOSC to review the POI change and, if approved, concur or revise the proposed way ahead. (b)  Program objective memorandum year changes.  In the POM development process, TRADOC will submit all POI changes with RC resource requirement increases, RC taught courses with resource requirement increases, and cumulative resource requirement increases of one million dollars to the spring Institutional CoC/TGOSC forums. In the spring Insti-tutional CoC/TGOSC forums, TRADOC will present cumulative information on all POI changes for all TRADOC POI submissions and all courses with resource changes under the thresholds and that have internal bill-payers. Based upon Institutional CoC approval, TRADOC will provide a full cost analysis for all course changes with resource changes above the threshold to the summer Institutional CoC/TGOSC forums. In the fall Institutional CoC/TGOSC forums, the proposed new courses and courses with resource changes will be prioritized in the Training Enterprise portfolio. (5)  Synchronize ATRRS CAD updates concurrently with approval of new or changed POIs. (6)  Identify and notify DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate), of the impact of resource deficiencies on unit mission and task performance accomplishment. (7)  Obtain DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate) approval in cases where a course change results in a change of status from temporary duty (TDY) to permanent change of station (PCS), or vice versa. (8)  Obtain DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate) approval for course deletions that will have Armywide implications or when classes are cancelled when a certified instructor or essential equipment is not available. z.  Establish institutional military leader training courses that provide training in leadership, technical, and tactical tasks relevant to branch missions for the type units students will serve in after training. This requires the CG, TRADOC to: (1)  Develop courses and make them accessible for instruction in non-TRADOC schools. (2)  Coordinate with non-TRADOC commanders to establish courses worldwide, as required. (3)  Ensure input and graduation data for courses conducted by TRADOC are posted to ATRRS in accordance with AR 350  10. aa.  Develop and publish guidance for the development of training products and training support products. bb.  Coordinate pre-commissioning military training among pre-commissioning sources. cc.  Consult with DARNG and CAR on scheduling courses that are conducted when the preponderance of students are ARNG or USAR. dd.  Command and manage federal OCS, ROTC, and NDCC activities except those functions and responsibilities re-tained by HQDA. ee.  Exercise administrative responsibility to (1)  Supervise, manage, operate, fund, and control the Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center (DLIFLC). (2)  Ensure AIT for language-dependent occupational specialties includes requirements for demonstrating linguistic proficiency. (3)  Validate DLIFLC resources. ff.  Supervise the development and implementation of an individual military training integration and standardization program. gg.  Review, approve, publish, distribute, and maintain TSPs and products. hh.  Develop school mobilization missions and supporting policy and guidance. ii.  Maintain and distribute career development models in coordination with each career management field proponent. jj.  Serve as the POI proponent for instructional programs at TASS training battalions. kk.  Serve as DCS, G1s executing agent for development of the mobilization ARPRINT in accordance with AR 350  10. ll.  Through the CG, Combined Arms Center, serve as the proponent for mission Command (MC) current and emerging systems and technology. mm..  Serve as the proponent for, exercise responsibility for, and recommend policy for the telecommunication systems engineering FA (FA 24) and information systems management FA (FA 53) through the U.S. Army Cyber CoE. nn.  Serve as the proponent for, exercise responsibility for, and recommend policy for the strategic intelligence FA (FA 34) through the CG, U.S. Army Intelligence CoE. oo.  Coordinate with ACOM, HRC, DARNG, CAR, and HQDA to develop NCOA tables of distribution and allowance. pp.  Ensure the Army fraternization policy contained in AR 600  20 is addressed in IMT, NCOES and OES as appro-priate. Coordinate through OTJAG. qq.  Research and develop the parameters of the operational environment - training conditions - necessary for appropri-ate training of Soldiers, leaders and units in all training domains. Document the operational environment for training in a periodically updated pamphlet for use by trainers in establishing training conditions. ss.  Establish a special staff HQ, TRADOC Quality Assurance (OA) Office, as the lead agent for the Armys QA pro-gram, to (1)  Develop the responsibilities, policies, procedures, and objectives for the Armys QA program in coordination with other commands and stakeholders. (2)  Develop  and  maintain  the  policy,  guidance,  and  accreditation  standards  for  assessment of Army learning institutions across the DOTMLPF  P domains. (3)  Serve  as the  accrediting  organization  for  all  Army  schools  (TRADOC  and  non-TRADOC,  active  and  reserve, military and Civilian) with the exception of the U.S. Military Academy. rr.  Assist DCS, G  2, FORSCOM and the Intelligence and Security Command (INSCOM) to develop and sustain Foundry training programs to support commanders requirements as outlined in AR 350  32. tt.  Establish Army Training Help Desk as a distributed knowledge center to assist Army, Joint, and outside users with questions related to Army training. uu.  Exercise responsibility for nonspecial operations forces SERE training. vv.  Review strategic language list for training, with DCS, G  1, DCS, G  2, and DCS, G  3/5/7, and ASCCs annually. . ww.  Serve as the proponent for Army Cultural Training. xx.  Serve as the proponent for risk management (RM) doctrine and RM integration into leader development. yy.  Assist the DCS G  37/Institutional Training Division with the integration of required resources and implementation of the One Army School System for the Regular Army and Reserve Components. zz.  Co-chair with DCS G  37/Institutional Training Division, a workgroup of Army stakeholders to review the total enduring institutional training TDA requirements and authorizations. aaa.  Chair the TCCW, pre-SMDR. bbb.  Ensure course equivalency across One Army School System. ccc.  Assist the TSS planning and monitor TRADOC unit use of IMCOM executed training enabler resources that sup-port Senior Commander directed training programs. ddd.  Identify requirements for, and manage execution of USARC Mission Training Complexes under the command of the 75th Division (Training). eee.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. fff.  Develop the necessary controls to ensure all subordinate activities comply with guidance in the ITDLM Handbook. Incorporate, as applicable, ITDLM program requirements in command inspection program. ggg.  Ensure DTMS provides necessary data to Defense Readiness Reporting System- Army (DRRSA) in support of commanders unit status reporting. 2  24.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Materiel Command The CG, AMC will a.  Establish training functions as specified in this regulation and AR 10  87. b.  Establish policy for and manage the Defense Ammunition Center. c.  Provide management training in industrial and business activities for the Wholesale Logistics System. d.  Function as the quota manager for Defense Management Education and Training Program Courses. e.  Coordinate with DCS, G  2; PEO/PM U.S. Army Intelligence CoE; INSCOM and HQ, TRADOC to evaluate cryp-tology and signal intelligence, measurements intelligence, and human intelligence (HUMINT) training requirements re-lated to tactical cryptology and national signal intelligence systems (when the Army is designated as the system developer). f.  Ensure, through assigned NET managers, and in coordination with, program and systems managers (1)  Production of new equipment training plan (NETP) for each new, improved, or modified materiel system based upon the approved capability requirement document. Coordinate NETP with the TNGDEV, CAPDEV, gaining commands, test agencies, and other agencies, as required. (2)  Coordination with HQDA to ensure visibility of funds for the acquisition of the systems training subsystem. (3)  Resourcing and updating TADSS and TSPs to keep pace with the system engineering change proposals, technology insertions, and block improvements applied to the materiel system. (4)  Validation of system TSPs, to include system TADSS and embedded training, are available to support FUE. (5)  PM identifies ammunition and consumables necessary to support AMT. (6)  Review of AMT ammunition requirements semiannually with PM. (7)  Provide training for multiservice systems or equipment for which the Army has been designated the NET manager. Training will be provided upon receipt of a statement of requirements and funding. (8)  The responsible Army MATDEV for multiservice systems or items of equipment managed by other military de-partments will (a)  Identify training needs and ensure the lead military department includes the requirement in the appropriate training plan, in coordination with the Army TNGDEV. (b)  Program and budget the Army portion of NET unless the lead military department is required to fund. (9)  Assist TNGDEV in identifying MOS and AOC affected by NET. The affected MOS/AOC will be listed in the appropriate section of NETP. (10)  Submit rosters of personnel who received NET directly to Commander, HRC, in coordination with the gaining command. (11)  Provide TNGDEV the first production or procurement item or system and peculiar support equipment to enable institutional training by the FUE date. (12)  Provide NET and technical documentation and supporting training materials to units conducting AWEs and ad-vanced technology demonstrations, in conjunction with TNGDEV, CAPDEV, or procuring agency. Coordinate AMT pol-icy issues with DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate), Washington, DC 20310  0450. g.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. h.  Develop the necessary controls to ensure subordinate command, U.S. Army Sustainment Command, comply with guidance in the ITDLM Handbook. i.  Oversee subsistence payment process for Soldiers directed meals while attending Institutional Training under the ITDLM Program. 2  25.  Commanding General, U.S. Army, Europe The CG, USAREUR will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation, AR 10  87 and AR 140  1. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Review and provide input for updates to Army training strategies. d.  Support the JCS Joint Exercise and Training Program. e.  Support AMT in accordance with this regulation. f.  Support ODT. g.  Participate in the TACITS, SMDR, and TRAP in accordance with AR 350  10. h.  Provide command and control for Troop schools within USAREUR. i.  Develop USAR training requirements for formal school training in coordination with USARC for TPU members. j.  Program and budget resources for operation of the basic level NCOES course. k.  Supervise and execute the SRP. l.  Responsible for the JMRC and schedule units for training there. Man JMRC observer, coach, trainer requirements. m.  Execute training support (range operations, Integrated Training Area Management, training support center, and MTC / LVC models and simulations ITE operations) at installations in USAREUR, consistent with the mission commanders priorities. n.  Prepare requirements for and execute TSS Services on installations in USAREUR. o.  For any pre-deployment training in support of respective CCDR mission requirement beyond Decisive Action (like-type-units with standard unit METL (MET/SCT)) requests-for-forces, minimum expectations include: identification of all tasks (individual and collective) pre-deployment training requirements by an Army Task Numeric, task title, task descrip-tion, doctrinal reference, and supported by a Training and Evaluation Outline in the Combined Arms Training Strategy (CATS) or training support package if appropriate. 2  26.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Pacific The CG, USARPAC will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation, AR 10  87 and AR 140  1. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Review and provide input for updates to Army training strategies. d.  Support the JCS Joint Exercise and Training Program. e.  Support ODT. f.  Participate in the TACITS, SMDR, and TRAP in accordance with AR 350  10. g.  Provide command and control for Troop Schools within USARPAC. h.  Command USAR TPUs and reinforcement training units in USARPAC. i.  Establish training and evaluation programs for assigned USAR units without an applicable CATS. j.  Provide quota control policy and monitor class input for Regular Army NCOPDS courses conducted by USARPAC NCOAs and for the USAR TASS school battalions. k.  Program and budget resources for operation of the basic level NCOES course. l.  Supervise and execute the SRP. m.  Execute training support (range operations, Integrated Training Area Management, training support center, and MTC/LVC ITE operations) at installations in USARPAC, consistent with the mission commanders priorities. n.  Prepare requirements for and execute TSS Services on installations in USARPAC. o.  For any pre-deployment training in support of respective CCDR mission requirement beyond decisive action (like-type-units with standard unit METL (MET/SCT)) requests-for-forces, minimum expectations include: identification of all tasks (individual and collective) pre-deployment training requirements by an Army Task Numeric, task title, task descrip-tion, doctrinal reference, and supported by a Training and Evaluation Outline in the Combined Arms Training Strategy (CATS) or training support package if appropriate. p.  Responsible for the JPMRC and scheduling of units for training. Man JPMRC observer, coach, trainer requirements. 2  27.  Commanding General, U. S. Army South The CG, USARSO will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation, AR 10  87 and AR 140  1. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Review and provide input for updates to Army training strategies. d.  Support the JCS Joint Exercise and Training Program. e.  Support ODT. f.  Program and budget resources for operation of the basic level NCOES course. g.  For any pre-deployment training in support of respective CCDR mission requirement beyond Decisive Action (like-type-units with standard unit METL (MET/SCT)) requests-for-forces, minimum expectations include: identification of all tasks (individual and collective) pre-deployment training requirements by an Army Task Numeric, task title, task descrip-tion, doctrinal reference, and supported by a Training and Evaluation Outline in the Combined Arms Training Strategy (CATS) or training support package if appropriate. 2  28.  Commanding General, U. S. Army North The CG, USARNORTH will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation, AR 10  87 and AR 140  1. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Review and provide input for updates to Army training strategies. d.  Support the JCS Joint Exercise and Training Program. e.  Support ODT. f.  Program and budget resources for operation of the basic level NCOES course. g.  For any pre-deployment training in support of respective CCDR mission requirement beyond Decisive Action (like-type-units with standard unit METL (MET/SCT)) requests-for-forces, minimum expectations include: identification of all tasks (individual and collective) pre-deployment training requirements by an Army Task Numeric, task title, task descrip-tion, doctrinal reference, and supported by a Training and Evaluation Outline in the Combined Arms Training Strategy (CATS) or training support package, if appropriate. 2  29.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Central Command The CG, USARCENT will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation, AR 10  87 and AR 140  1. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Review and provide input for updates to Army training strategies. d.  Support the JCS Joint Exercise and Training. e.  Support ODT. f.  For any pre-deployment training in support of respective CCDR mission requirement beyond Decisive Action (like-type-units with standard unit METL (MET/SCT)) requests-for-forces, minimum expectations include: identification of all tasks (individual and collective) pre-deployment training requirements by an Army Task Numeric, task title, task descrip-tion, doctrinal reference, and supported by a Training and Evaluation Outline in the Combined Arms Training Strategy (CATS) or training support package if appropriate. 2  30.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Special Operations Command The CG, USASOC will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces for worldwide deployment in accordance with this regulation, AR 140  1, and AR 10  87. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Establish training requirements and develop products to support training in special operations units on Soldier, leader, and collective tasks. d.  Review and provide input for updates to Army training strategies. e.  Support the JCS Joint Exercise and Training Program. f.  Support AMT in accordance with this regulation. g.  Support ODT. h.  Exercise responsibility for special operations forces SERE training. i.  Support initiatives for integrated training opportunities with general purpose forces. j.  Develop the necessary controls to ensure all subordinate activities comply with guidance in the ITDLM Handbook. k.  Assist with TSS planning, and monitor USASOC unit use of IMCOM executed training enabler resources that sup-port Senior Commander directed training programs. 2  31.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command/Army Forces Strategic Command The CG, USASMDC/ARSTRAT will a.  Execute force management and integration responsibilities as the designated force modernization proponent for global ballistic missile defense and space and high altitude capabilities (see AR 5  22). As the ASCC to U.S. Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM), USASMDC/ARSTRAT provides planning, integration, coordination, and control of Army forces and capabilities in support of USSTRATCOM requirements, in accordance with AR 10  87. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Serve as the personnel proponent for all FA 40, Space Operations Officers as outlined in AR 600  3. d.  Establish training requirements, develop and conduct training programs to support proponency and ASCC responsi-bilities to include FA40, Space ASI 3Y, ground-based midcourse defense operators ASI T3, Joint Tactical Ground Stations ASI Q4, AN/TPY  2 (FBM) Sensor Managers ASI Y7, Army Space Cadre and other Army space and missile defense related fields. e.  Establish training requirements and develop products/programs to support training in USASMDC/ARSTRAT units on Soldier, leader, and collective tasks. f.  Establish and maintain an Army Space Personnel Development Office to synchronize and integrate Army Space Cadre efforts across all Army proponents. The Army Space Personnel Development Office has personnel life cycle man-agement responsibilities for all FA40 officers as outlined in AR 600  3. The Army Space Personnel Development Office will support the development and execution of Army Space Cadre education and training programs. g.  Support joint, TRADOC and other Army schools with tailored space and missile defense training and education, as required. This includes institutions and programs such as the National Security Space Institute, Joint Special Operations University, Naval Postgraduate School, etc. h.  Support other TRADOC proponent schools with tailored space training and education, as required. i.  Support TRADOC, through CG, Combined Arms Center, with institutionalized denied, disrupted, degraded space operational environment (D3SOE) education. 2  32.  Commanding General, Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command The CG, Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command will train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation and AR 10  87. 2  33.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Cyber Command The CG, U.S. Army Cyber Command will  a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation and AR 10  87. b.  Serve as ASCC to U.S. Cyber Command. It is the lead for Army missions, actions, and functions related to cyber-space, including responsibility for planning, coordinating, integrating, synchronizing, directing, and conducting Army net-work operations and defense of all Army networks. c.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. (1)  Coordinate and synchronize support for Cyber Exercise, Experimentation and War game support. d.  Information operations. (1)  Establish and operate a world class cyber OPFOR per AR 350  2, in support of CG TRADOC and in coordination with DCS, G  2 to provide cyber and information operations OPFOR support to CTCs, MCTP, ACOMs, and other military forces as directed. (2)  Provide Information Operations and military deception training support to ACOMs, other service commands, Joint Forces, inter-agencies, and activities as directed. (3)  Coordinate, integrate, direct, and provide oversight of Army Field Support Team training. Maintain situational awareness of Army Field Support Team exercise and deployment requirements in coordination with the USARC, the NGB, and FORSCOM to ensure required participation levels are met. 2  34.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers The CG, USACE will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces for worldwide deployment in accordance with this regulation, AR 140  1, and AR 10  87. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Provide technical advice and assistance to the Army Staff pertaining to facilities, military engineering, real estate, and geospatial individual and unit training. d.  Coordinate with the TNGDEV, MATDEV, and ACOMs to identify MCA requirements to support AMT, and ensure the Facilities Support Plan supports scheduled fielding of materiel systems. e.  Develop and conduct training for civil works programs and for military programs assigned as USACE support func-tions. f.  Develop the necessary controls to ensure subordinate activity (Norfolk District) comply with guidance in the ITDLM Handbook. g.  Represents the interests of DCS, G  3/5/7, ARNG and USARC in providing Privatization of Army Lodging (PAL) for Soldiers attending Institutional Training. h.  Executes the PAL Lodging In-License Agreements to support of the ITDLM Program. i.  Oversees lodging validation process in support of the ITDLM Program. j.  Oversees lodging payment process with the PAL vendor. 2  35.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Medical Command The CG, MEDCOM will a.  Exercise responsibility on matters pertaining to medical training. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Train and evaluate medical personnel for worldwide deployment in accordance with this regulation and AR 10  87. d.  Establish training requirements and develop products to support training in medical units on Soldier, leader, and collective tasks. e.  Support ODT within funding constraints and in support of unit level, METL-based, collective training opportunities. f.  Execute the systematic and progressive education of MEDCOM Soldiers and Army Civilian personnel in the health services field and: (1)  Establish NCOPDS courses to provide job proficiency training of all MEDCOM enlisted Soldiers. (2)  Monitor ALC and SLC quota utilization (class input) for courses conducted at MEDCOM schools. (3)  Monitor class input for courses for which TSG is the proponent and ensure (a)  Appropriate prerequisites for enrollment are established. (b)  Nonresident MEDCOM NCOPDS courses are established and maintained. (4)  Conduct NCOA instructional programs at the Army Medical Center and School (AMEDDC&S), U.S. Army Health Readiness CoE (HRCoE) under TSG-approved POI. (5)  Monitor class input and NCOPDS instruction quality control. (6)  Conduct BOLC  B and CCC at the AMEDDC&S HRCoE under the Office of the Surgeon General- approved POI. g.  Program and budget for TDY-and-return travel related to MEDCOM basic level NCOES. The AMEDDC&S will program and budget for MEDCOM personnel to attend BLC training. h.  AMEDDC&S, ICW TSG, conduct MATDEV, CAPDEV, and TNGDEV for medical materiel systems IAW AR 5  22. i.  Support FORSCOM sustainable force generation and readiness, as required. j.  Develop the necessary controls to ensure all subordinate activities comply with guidance in the ITDLM Handbook. 2  36.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command The CG, INSCOM will a.  Plan and conduct training and evaluation in accordance with this regulation, AR 140  1, and AR 10  87. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Exercise program Foundry responsibilities as directed by DCS, G  2 in accordance with AR 350  32. Monitor and manage the Foundry Intelligence Training program per 350  32. d.  Exercise responsibility for the foreign materiel training portion of the Opposing Forces (OPFOR) Program in ac-cordance with AR 350  2. e.  Support FORSCOM force generation, as required. f.  Assist FORSCOM, TRADOC, and adjacent and subordinate units in developing, fielding, sustaining, and funding Foundry training programs in support of commanders requirements as outlined in AR 350  32. g.  Ensure the Foundry program supports FORSCOM Intelligence Warfighting Function training guidance. h.  Provide unit and functional partnerships in support of the Foundry program. Per AR 350  32 serve as the single point of entry for units seeking information about Foundry training opportunities and establish Foundry training sites in support of intelligence training sustainment objectives in coordination with DCS G  2, ACOM/ASCC/DRUs, USAR, and ARNG/Army National Guard of the United States. 2  37.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command The CG, USACIDC will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation and AR 10  87. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Operate the Defense Forensics Science Center at Fort Gillem, GA, and administer and manage the training and pro-fessional development of all U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command laboratory technicians. 2  38.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Military District of Washington The CG, MDW will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation and AR 10  87. b.  Assist with TSS training enabler planning, and monitor unit use of IMCOM executed training enabler resources that support senior commander-directed training programs at Fort A.P. Hill. 2  39.  Commanding General, Installation Management Command The CG, IMCOM will a.  Execute training support (range operations, integrated training area management (ITAM), training support center, and Virtual and Constructive Simulations Center operations) within 48 states (CONUS): RA and USAR installations. This will be consistent with the mission commanders priorities. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Provide BASOPS/SRM to support the execution of institutional and unit training strategies by ACOM mission com-manders. d.  Support the installation and sustainment of DL facilities. e.  Provide garrison base realignment and closure plans and points of contact information to TRADOC G  3/5/7 for digital training facility coordination. f.  Exercise responsibility on matters pertaining to installation readiness and family, morale, welfare, and recreation programs. g.  Execute training support (range operations, Integrated Training Area Management, training support center, and MTC/LVC ITE operations) at CONUS RA and USAR installations managed by IMCOM, consistent with the mission commanders priorities. h.  Prepare requirements for and execute TSS Services on CONUS RA and USAR installations. 2  40.  Superintendent, U.S. Military Academy The Superintendent, USMA will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation and AR 10  87. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Serve as the proponent for the academy professor FA (FA 47). d.  Assist with TSS planning, and monitor unit use of IMCOM executed training enabler resources that support senior commander-directed training program at West Point. 2  41.  Commanding General, U.S. Army Test and Evaluation Command The CG, ATEC will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation and AR 10  87. b.  Assist with TSS training enabler planning, and implement the sustainable range program at ATEC test centers. 2  42.  Director, U.S. Army Acquisition Support Center Director, USAASC will a.  Train and evaluate assigned forces in accordance with this regulation and AR 10  87. b.  Support Civilian leader development (training and education) within the command. c.  Organize and manage the Armys Acquisition Career Management Program, in his/her duties as the Deputy Director for Acquisition Career Management (DACM), including the development and approval of policies on training matters associated with Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act implementation, including the Defense Acquisition University Training, Army Acquisition Center of Excellence (AACoE) Training and the Continuous Learning Program. USAASC is responsible for the oversight of education, training, and career development of acquisition professionals across all Army acquisition career fields. 2  43.  Commandant, U.S. Army War College Commandant, USAWC will a.  Educate and develop leaders for service at the strategic level while advancing knowledge in the global application of Landpower. b.  As the Executive agent for the Armys General Officer education, execute oversight on behalf of the CSA and Com-mander, TRADOC. c.  Oversee the 10-month resident course of instruction qualifying attendees for award of MEL  1, a Masters of Strategic Studies degree, and Joint professional military education (JPME II), subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Army and consistent with HQDA and CJCS policy. d.  Oversee a 2year distance education course of instruction that qualifies attendees for award of MEL  1, a Masters of Strategic Studies degree, and JPME I, subject to the approval of the SA and consistent with HQDA and CJCS policy. e.  Oversee a course of instruction that provides Army, Joint and select partners the qualifications and unique skills, knowledge and attributes to excel as strategists subject to coordination with the FA59 proponent and consistent with HQDA policy. f.  Oversee the Center for Strategic Leadership (CSL) as the Armys Strategic Wargaming Center. g.  Oversee PKSOI in their role as a North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Partnership and Training Education Center (PTEC) providing peacekeeping courses to NATO Partner for Peace (PfP) countries. h.  Oversee and conduct the Army Security Cooperation Planners Course (ASCPC) in coordination with DCS, G  3/5/7 (DAMO  SS). Provide subject matter expertise and administrative support as required. i.  Oversee of the Strategic Studies Institute (SSI) and Army War College Press as the Armys premier research agency for examining strategic security challenges and managing the Army War College Fellows Program. j.  Coordinate for the external accreditation/review of MOS/ASI-producing courses provide by faculty for ASAWC. 2  44.  Other commanders and leaders Other commanders and leaders will a.  Senior commanders, division commanders, state adjutants generals, and USAR major commands will exercise com-mand relationship responsibilities with regard to: assigned missions (as applicable); developing training guidance and master training plans; allocating the necessary resources to effectively implement these plans; evaluating the conduct of training; reducing training detractors; reducing personnel and unit turbulence; and providing subordinate commanders maximum time to train (see AR 600  20). To improve training, commanders will employ the ATMS (DTMS, Army Train-ing Network, CATS) to plan, resource, and manage unit training and access Army standard training products. ATMS is applicable to Garrison TDA organizations where feasible or as required by the DCS, G  3/5/7. b.  Brigade-level commanders will provide training guidance; set training objectives; sub-allocate resources; reduce training detractors unit turbulence. c.  Battalion-level commanders are the principal training managers and will develop, coordinate, implement, supervise, and evaluate performance-oriented training programs within the guidance and resources provided by higher headquarters; develop specific training plans to correct training deficiencies; reduce training detractors and unit turbulence; and coordi-nate resources for subordinate units. d.  Company-level commanders are the primary trainers. As such, they assist the training managers in developing train-ing plans, and prepare and execute the training program. Commanders are responsible for the content of any training material not provided by HQDA, or ACOM/ASCC/DRU. e.  NCOs are the principal trainers of individual Soldiers. Each NCO (and officer) must be capable of performing every task required of their immediate subordinates and understand the relationship between individual job requirements, Sol-diers manuals, and collective tasks. f.  All commanders and leaders will (1)  Ensure Soldiers train and maintain required Soldiers manual task proficiency. (2)  Continually assess military and Army Civilian individual, unit, and organizational training status; provide timely feedback to subordinates; and make appropriate adjustments to the training program. Commanders will evaluate subordi-nate organizations. (3)  Develop subordinate officers, NCOs, and Army Civilians to attain that level of professionalism required for cur-rently assigned duties, and to increase their skills for subsequent duties. (4)  Ensure that, consistent with individual duty and unit mission requirements, Army Civilian and military subordinates are given opportunities for professional development through available education programs supplemented by unit and organizational programs. (5)  Ensure the training program includes preparation for overseas movement, and that Soldiers and units can deploy and fight as combined arms teams. (6)  Provide feedback to higher headquarters and the institutional training base by recommending improvements to ex-isting training doctrine, literature, and training techniques. (7)  Insist that all training be performance oriented and designed to correct weaknesses and maintain strengths. (8)  Conduct continuous individual and collective training throughout the training year per Army training strategies and commander guidance. (9)  Identify and reduce training detractors. Ensure that Army-approved training products such as the CATS, TSPs, training and evaluation outlines (T&EOs), and Soldier manuals are understood and used. Commanders are responsible for the content of any training materiel not provided by HQDA, or ACOM/ASCC/DRU. (10)  Ensure that Army-approved management tools are used, such as ATMS (Army Training Network, DTMS, CATS) and Training Ammunition Management Information System. (11)  Conduct HQDA mandatory training requirements within their commands. (12)  Support TADLP: (a)  Ensure that Soldiers complete HQDA mandatory training and structured self-development training. (b)  Ensure Soldiers are available for HQDA-directed and quota managed DL training and have no command- directed conflicts that will interfere with their scheduled DL training. Commanders will schedule DL training that supports collec-tive training. Soldiers will accomplish self-development training on their own time unless otherwise directed by their commander. (c)  Request DL training for qualified applicants through ATRRS to HRC for skills linked to force readiness (for exam-ple, NCOES, ASI, and SQI), through the installation Director of Plans, Training, and Mobilization, G  3, or schools. (d)  Encourage and support Soldiers participation in self-improvement and Civilian education courses, either through DL or Army Correspondence Course Program. (13)  Leveraging military training for support of civil authorities. Any 10 USC Army unit training off-base will do so in accordance with DODI 1322.28 and DODI 3025.21. Actions include: coordination with law enforcement agencies (LEA) when appropriate to provide an orientation briefing to the military personnel involved in the off-base training, as well as plans for a medical evacuation plan of military personnel involved in the event; a communication plan for military elements involved in the event; and to meet other administrative and operational requirements with input from LEA and/or local military police/security force personnel. When applicable, state installation regulations and SOPs will be used to identify local coordination and safety requirements for ARNG training. Unless otherwise stated by DCS, G  3/5/7, all units will comply with event risk assessment criteria, approval authority levels and notification levels outlined in DODI 1322.28. 2  45.  Senior commander and garrison commander duties Senior commander and garrison commander duties are detailed in AR 600  20. Senior commanders and garrison com-manders will a.  Support operations and management of DTFs: (1)  Coordinate with HQ TRADOC for relocation, modification, or closure of DTFs. USARC and ARNG will be in-cluded in any changes in order to determine impacts on RC Soldiers. Army installations are not authorized to relocate or close DTFs without approval of TRADOC DCS, G  3/5/7. (2)  Support the installation and sustainment of DTFs. (3)  Execute operational control over the DTFs and facility managers at installations in CONUS and outside continental United States (OCONUS), including property accountability. (4)  Execute funding for relocation, modification, or closure of any DTF. When relocation of a DTF is a result of a MILCON project, the funding for the movement of the DTF must be included in the funding request for the construction project. (5)  Ensure all unfinanced requirements with regards to DTFs are processed through budget or resource management channels. Do not submit unfinanced requirements directly to PD DLS. (6)  Ensure base realignment and closure points of contact account for DTFs before and during base realignment and closure execution through the ACOM or DRU to TRADOC. (7)  Ensure all new requirements are vetted through the ACOM or DRU to HQ, TRADOC. (8)  Provide subject matter experts for assistant instructors or facilitators at the DTFs when required by the course pro-ponent. b.  Know that senior commander TSS responsibilities will vary by command relationships between ACOM/ASCC/ DRU and IMCOM on matters concerning TSS management, execution, requirements generation (see chap 6 in this regu-lation).  2  46.  Commandants, commanders and directors of Army schools, centers, and institutions The commandants, commanders and directors of Army schools will a.  Develop, maintain, store and provide access to training strategies, programs, and doctrine-based instructional mate-rials/resources (CATS, DA Pam 350  38, STRAPs) for which they are the proponent in the repositories directed by CG, TRADOC. b.  Establish requirements for procurement, maintenance, and operation of adequate housing, academic buildings, equip-ment, training areas, other authorized facilities, and training support products. c.  Develop, review, and validate training support requirements and products to ensure that all individual and collective training requirements throughout the Army and all training domains are documented. All comments and nonconcurrences will be reconciled before forwarding the final documentation. If non concurrences cannot be reconciled, document will be forwarded to CAC for a decision before forwarding. Develop, coordinate, and approve STRAPs to define training strategies and training support requirements in support of new, improved and displaced equipment and training systems/subsystems, where appropriate. Assist in the development, review and validation of NETPs. d.  Review and evaluate new or revised doctrine, tactics, techniques, and procedures prepared by other Army agencies, other services, and other nations. e.  Prepare and provide training products to include: course management plans, course administrative material, support-ing POIs, TSPs and other materials needed to support training strategies. f.  Provide training support to the ROTC, NDCC programs, Army units and organizations, and other training activities, as directed. g.  Support training and leadership research. h.  Provide training to students of other nations in accordance with AR 12  15. Maintain security of training information in accordance with AR 380  5 and 380  10. i.  Develop and implement the Student Performance Measurement and Testing Program. (1)  Establish testing requirements and determine the type of test to accomplish the purpose for testing. (2)  Design, develop, and use criterion-referenced performance tests to measure student competency in accomplishing the objectives of task-based training. (3)  Develop an individual student assessment plan for each training course. j.  Furnish personnel, funds, facilities, and other resources in support of Army school training requirements, and furnish subject matter expert support for developing materiel system and system training support products. k.  Schedule classes, distribute consolidated class schedules, and adjust training loads to meet changing requirements, capabilities, and budgetary considerations. l.  Evaluate the quality of training, effectiveness of graduates, and the appropriateness of training support materials. m.  Conduct long-range planning to forecast training needs, identify resource requirements, and program and budget resources. n.  Assist TRADOC to identify individual tasks required for leaders and principal staff positions, and apply doctrine and Army mission changes to institutional and unit training. o.  Develop Army Correspondence Course Program courses/modules as interactive multimedia instruction for self-de-velopment or for part of a TATS course to be completed before, during, or after a resident training phase. p.  Report output status of all personnel attending training through ATRRS. Schools report completion of training courses attended by enlisted Soldiers through ATRRS to the Army/American Council on Education Registry Transcript System Operations Center (AHRC  PDE  A), 415 McPherson Avenue, Fort Leavenworth, KS 66027  1373. Academic verification will show course completion, the associated college credits, or the recommended college credits. q.  Ensure that copies of current POIs for resident courses are provided to: American Council on Education, Center for Adult Learning and Educational Credentials; (Military Evaluations); 1 DuPont Circle; Washington, DC 20036  1193. The POIs to be evaluated for college credit will include the designated ATRRS course numbers. r.  Use proponent-provided training materials and products. s.  Consider the use of existing schools and courses within other services before establishing a new course or school. t.  Review, biennially, all military career management field Career Development Models for potential change. u.  Develop individual proficiency training, which will result in the award of the appropriate military occupational iden-tifier (AOC, ASI, LIC, MOS, SQI, and SI). v.  Provide training that is not available elsewhere, or that can be accomplished more economically than in units, other Army installations, or Civilian institutions. w.  Provide administrative and logistical support of staff, faculty, units, and other personnel assigned to the school for duty. x.  Provide course material (lesson plans, student evaluations plan, course management plan, and tests) for implementa-tion by TASS organizations. y.  Prepare ILPs, which include mobilization plans. z.  Prepare and review literature for Army-wide distribution. aa.  Provide training in accordance with approved branch proponent POIs. Exceptions are as stated in paragraph 2  47 of this regulation.  bb.  Develop an instructor certification program for instructors teaching MOS reclassification and for small group in-structors. cc.  Provide Army Values training; Sexual Harassment, Assault and Response Prevention (SHARP) training in all pro-fessional military education courses. 2  47.  Approval responsibilities for programs of instruction/courses at special schools Responsibilities concerning POI/course approval at special schools include a.  Approval authority for Defense Information School POIs/courses rests with the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs). b.  Approval authority for MEDCOM POIs/courses rests with TSG for new POIs/courses and changes that would require additional resources or modify POI/course prerequisites, purpose, or length. Approval authority rests with the Commander, Army Medical Department Center and School, for other MEDCOM POIs/courses. c.  The CG, The Judge Advocate Generals Legal Center and School approves POIs/courses for legal education courses. d.  The Commandant, USAWC, develops USAWC curriculum and forwards it to CG, TRADOC for review. The Com-mandant, USAWC, and the CG, TRADOC, coordinate the curriculum to ensure that the education program is consistent with Army University and OES objectives. e.  The CG, U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command, supervises the Army crime laboratory system in accordance with AR 195  2 and operates the Criminal Investigation Laboratory. f.  The President, National Defense University, approves the curriculum for National Defense University colleges and institutes. g.  The Commandant, DLIFLC (1)  Approves POIs/courses for foreign language training. (2)  Controls foreign language training POIs/courses, except for those of the service Academies, the National Crypto-logic School, and USASOC. (3)  Exercises the responsibilities assigned by AR 350  20 and evaluates the Army Linguist Program and use of language tests; coordinates and provides information to the services on the use of foreign language tests and testing procedures; and programs and budgets for the development of language aptitude and proficiency tests for use throughout DOD. h.  The CG, USACE, approves POIs/courses for training provided by the USACE Learning Center. i.  The Director, USAASC, approves POIs/courses for training provided by the Army Acquisition center of Excellence (AACoE). Chapter 3 The Army Institutional Training and Education System Section I Introduction 3  1.  Description The Army institutional training and education system provides Soldiers, leaders, and the Army Civilian Corps the attributes and competencies required to operate successfully in any environment. Institutional training supports every Soldier and Army Civilian in the force throughout their Army career. Contributions include pre-commissioning training, IMT, reclas-sification/MOS transition, PME and Civilian education, leader development, specialty and functional training, training development, DL, and training support products. The Army University concept supports the SECARMY and Chief of Staff of the Armys (CSA) vision to reinvest and transform our institutional educational programs. This transformation grows leaders intellectual capacity to understand the complex contemporary security environment. The Army University creates the learning environment required to produce agile, adaptive and innovative leaders across the Total Force in support of the Army Operating Concept.  The result is improved performance, increased readiness, and better led Army, joint, inter-agency, and multinational task forces. ArmyU has proponency to increase academic rigor and relevance, create greater opportunities of accreditation, and enhance the quality of the force across the Total Army Learning Enterprise. ArmyU aligns the total force officer, warrant officer, noncommissioned officer professional military education, and Army Civilian education programs within a unified academic construct. 3  2.  One Army School System a.  The One Army School System is comprised of  RA and RC schools, designed to provide relevant and realistic insti-tutional training. Rebalanced and regionally aligned to the mission, the One Army School System improves Army readi-ness. b.  The Army requires a school system responsive to the needs of the total force. To meet the challenges of the opera-tional environment, the Army created the One Army School System to increase technical and specialized skills for leaders. The One Army School System will ensure Soldiers, regardless of component, attend PME, MOS, and functional training courses on time and to standard. c.  The One Army School System is based on a centralized training load inclusive of course content, design, delivery, and quality assurance. Another element of One Army School System is the creation of Multi-Component NCOAs. A Multi-Component NCOA improves the integration of the RA and RC training systems by standardizing training, leveraging resources, and incorporating lessons learned experienced by highly skilled Soldiers. The Armys intent is to prepare for the future by providing trained and ready troops equipped to fight and win our nations wars. d.  The One Army School System concept specifically excludes all USAR and ARNG resources and assets (manpower, facilities, funding, and equipment) that support RC unique courses at the 83rd U.S. Army Reserve Readiness Training Center and U.S. Army National Guard Professional Education Center, respectively.  e.  Funding and other required resources within One Army School System are allocated by the DCS, G  3/5/7 based on the training mission. Reallocation of any component specific resources must be approved by DCS, G  3/5/7 prior to exe-cution to ensure equitable distribution of resources throughout the Army. 3  3.  The Army School System a.  TASS is a composite school system made up of RA, ARNG, USAR, and Army Civilian institutional training systems. TASS conducts IMT (for example, Basic Combat Training, AIT, BOLC A, and BOLC B); reclassification training (for example, MOS and officer branch qualification); officer, WO, NCO and Army Civilian professional development training and education (for example, OES, NCOPDS, and CES); and functional training (for example, ASI, SQI, SI, LIC). This is accomplished through both standard resident and DL courses. The RC TASS units are functionally aligned and linked to appropriate training proponents. b.  The Army training proponents (for example, TRADOC, USASOC, MEDCOM, INSCOM, USASMDC/ ARSTRAT, ARNG, and the USAR) provide the structure to establish, maintain, and operate TASS from a common automated man-agement system. The RA training proponents provide operational links to the RC instructor groups. This ensures quality assurance, instructor certification, TATS courseware, use of the training, education and learning product development process, and a distributed-learning strategy. TATS courseware ensures that all Army Soldiers, regardless of component, are trained to the same standard regardless of what component school conducts the training. RC configured courseware is not authorized. c.  The USAR provides component infrastructure organized to deliver institutional training at multiple geographic resi-dent and distributed-learning locations using TATS courseware approved and distributed by the Army training proponents through USARC. The USAR TASS conducts MOS reclassification, NCOES, OES, ASI/SQI, and functional courses. d.  The USARC, with assistance from USAREUR and USARPAC, will identify individual training requirements for USAR units. This allows units and schools to accommodate near-term student requirements, as well as program resources (for example, funding, instructors, equipment, scheduling, and so forth) needed for out-year training projections. e.  The ARNG TASS training regiments/battalions/companies and batteries have transformed and approached training requirements on a national basis. Training battalions have been relocated or established geographically based on density of MTOE structure. The ARNG TASS conducts OCS, WOCS, MOS reclassification, NCOES, ASI and functional courses. Based on mission training requirements, each region includes officer education (OCS, WOCS, officer professional devel-opment), enlisted education (reclass, NCOES,), functional, ASI and SQI courses. TASS training battalions, subordinate to the brigades/regiments, align with the proponents for each career management field. Battalions manage instructor groups. Each instructor group has multiple teaching sites that ensure the availability of decentralized instruction for all Soldiers. The ARNG TASS training regiments are aligned more closely with their respective States, but provide similar regional coverage for training of Soldiers of all components. f.  All RC training battalions/regiments and RA institutions teach courses to the same standards. RC schools teach courses in phases in order to allow units to better manage student IDT, ADT and annual training periods. All RA, RC, and Army Civilian training requirements are solicited during the TACITS process and are established during the SMDR. Whenever possible, attendance by Soldiers and Army Civilians at specific TASS training locations will be determined by the commuting distance from their duty station to the teaching location. g.  TASS training missions are validated during the SMDR process, reflected in the ARPRINT, and documented in ATRRS. Training missions compete for resources (personnel, facilities, equipment including OPTEMPO, supplies less training ammunition and training support) through a deliberate cross component (RA, ARNG, and USAR) affiliation pro-gram. Prior to the execution year of training, training program changes are finalized through the TRAP, co-chaired by DCS, G  1; and DCS, G  3/5/7. TRAP training requirement changes, once approved by DCS, G  1, are reflected in ATRRS. The Army School System provides training on a non-reimbursable basis. Schools will not cancel scheduled classes result-ing from resource constraints unless all commands with quotas agree to the cancellation, or , DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate) determines that necessary resources cannot be made available. Approved class cancellations will be an-nounced no later than 46 days before the class start date and posted in ATRRS. Course dates and locations may not be changed once they are within 45 days of the scheduled execution. Should either be necessary, the course will be treated as a non-conduct, and require the same coordination with other commands and approval from the DCS, G  3/5/7 as would a non-conducted course. A course will not be moved from a later date to one that would put them inside a 45 day window without the prior concurrence of all commands with quotas. (1)  In the event of instructor shortages, look across all components and attempt to fill the instructor requirement by requesting a qualified person to fill the position temporarily. Personnel with the required skills will be provided by the RA and the RC. When reimbursement is necessary, pay and allowances for personnel will be provided through a military interdepartmental purchase request. On a limited basis, TASS training battalions and brigades may also contract civilian personnel to fill the instructor shortages when determined to be mission essential and cost effective. (2)  The command scheduled to provide ATRRS listed training furnishes all necessary training facilities, to include billeting and government meals without reimbursement. Billeting is provided to all students from all commands on an equal basis regardless of training status (for example, inactive duty training, annual training, ADT, TDY in route, or TDY and return). When TASS units desire to use facilities not managed by IMCOM, reimbursement costs are made through a military interdepartmental purchase request. The use of non-government facilities follows established contracting guide-lines. (3)  Procedures for short- and long-term equipment loans required for TASS support are negotiated by the respective command in accordance with AR 700  131. All issue, turn-in, transportation, OPTEMPO, and repair costs are paid by the borrowing command. Accordingly, schools must make a deliberate effort to forecast such expenses as they prepare near-term budget and long-term program resource requirements. (a)  Prior to shipment, borrowed equipment must pass a joint technical inspection at the organizational level. In cases where Joint technical inspections are not possible, a memorandum of acceptance between the commands is required. The Army School System training battalions may agree to terms and conditions that differ from normal inspection standards when it is beneficial to do so. (b)  Lowering of standards for return of borrowed equipment is not authorized. Borrowed equipment is to be returned in the same condition as received. Funds may be transferred between commands by work breakdown structure (WBS) if the borrower does not have a repair capability. (4)  TASS units fund all classes of supply for each ATRRS scheduled course, except: (a)  Unit and organization commanders and supervisors must ensure that Soldiers and Army Civilians reporting for training have the required personal clothing requirements as shown in the ATRRS. Commanders must also ensure students meet other course prerequisites using the automated post reservation checklists prior to allowing the student to report for training. (b)  TRADOC will identify training ammunition (Class V) requirements for TASS and submit to DCS, G  3/5/7 (Train-ing Directorate), for approval and authorization. All Class V requirements are based upon proponent- approved POIs and student loads listed in the ATRRS (including TRAP actions). (5)  Except for certain classified instructional materials provided by the U.S. Army Intelligence Center, all TATS courseware and instructional materials are furnished to TASS training units by TRADOC, or other Army training propo-nent for local reproduction. (6)  Units requesting pop-up courses or phases (for example, those not scheduled in ATRRS during SMDR/TRAP process-usually to remedy a readiness deficiency) may be asked to assist with resources and funding in support of such training. h.  To avoid duplication of effort and potential conflicting guidance, ARNG and USARC should designate specific TASS units to serve as lead coordinators with the respective training proponents. Those lead coordinators will collect consensus among similar mission units for recommendation to the training proponents. Typically these recommendations will focus on programs of instruction (to include phasing), waivers, instructor qualifications, TASS accreditation, and so forth. Such two-way interaction between training proponents and TASS units will be coordinated through respective stand-ard requirements code managers at NGB and USARC. i.  TNGDEVs and instructional designers will be especially cognizant of phasing requirements within the RC TATS courseware so as to avoid unnecessary administrative, logistic, transportation, repair, and resource expenditures (for ex-ample, training on specific equipment, computers, or other training aids which can be completed in a single phase should be so contained in the TATS program-of-instruction thereby reducing geographically dispersed movement of equipment between IDT and ADT phases). 3  4.  Army training and education proponents CG, TRADOC is the Armys responsible official for the training and leader development process and is the accrediting authority for Army institutions developing Army training, education and learning products. Training and education propo-nents: a.  Develop courses based on established training, education and unit training management goals and objectives as well as the duties, responsibilities, and missions their graduates will be assigned. b.  Develop, evaluate, and train leader, technical, and tactical tasks that focus on missions for the size or type units or organizations to which graduates will be assigned. c.  Provide progressive and sequential training. Provide personnel serving at the same organizational level with training consisting of the same tasks, conditions, and standards. d.  Provide leader, technical, and tactical training that affords Soldiers and Civilians an opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge needed to perform more complex duties and missions of greater responsibility. e.  Develop, produce, store, maintain, and distribute training, education and learning support products to institutions, units, and individuals by means and repositories directed by CG, TRADOC. f.  Coordinate development of all learning training products, enablers, and systems with CAC to ensure that tasks and LVC considerations have been considered and integrated for the most cost effective means of training. Section II Administration 3  5.  Army Quality Assurance Program requirements a.  This section establishes the Army QA Program for all Army learning institutions (TRADOC and non-TRADOC schools and centers, military and Army Civilian, RA and RC) and designates the HQ, TRADOC QAO as the lead agent for the Army. (1)  The QA mission is to assist commanders and commandants in assessing the quality of the institutional Armys ability to meet the needs of the operational Army. This program will provide oversight of doctrine, training and education provided by all Army schools (TRADOC and non-TRADOC, military and civilian, RA and RC, except the USMA). It involves the accreditation of TRADOC Centers of Excellence and Army training and education institutions against a pre-scribed set of standards with measurable criteria that cross the DOTMLPF  P areas, to include IMT, PME, CES, and func-tional training. It employs quality controls, assessment processes, and statistical measurements. The QAO will function as an integral part of the Army Team by providing decision makers and stakeholders feedback and guidance to ensure Army learning institution DOTMLPF  P areas to meet the required standards to ensure Army readiness. This program will help ensure the development and implementation of current, relevant, efficient, and effective training and education to meet unit, Soldier, Army Civilian and leader competency needs throughout the Army. (2)  The QA Program goals are to provide: (a)  A sound, viable, flexible QA Program that meets the needs of the Army. (b)  Quality, standardized, current, and relevant doctrine, and institutional leader development (training and education) IAW the Army Enterprise Accreditation Standards (AEAS) across Army components, branches, and learning institutions. (c)  Equivalent RA/RC training and education in support of One Army School System. (d)  QA feedback/support to commandants, commanders and stakeholders in the operational environment and the learn-ing institution. (e)  Accredited TRADOC Centers of Excellence and Army learning institutions whose DOTMLPF  P areas support the education/training of Soldiers and Civilians. (f)  Army learning institutions that foster a culture of continuous improvement and shared best practices and products. (3)  The QA program supports the commanders responsibility to conduct organization assessment. b.  Organization and responsibilities. The QAO/QAE reports directly to and serves as the eyes and ears of the CG, DCG, commandant, assistant commandant, commander, or director as appropriate. This function can be performed by existing personnel in RC TASS Brigades/Battalions and Multifunctional Training Brigades/Units, but the QA officer/NCO will report directly to the commander for QA Program functions; QA responsibilities should be reflected in position de-scriptions. (1)  TRADOC QAO will manage the Army QA Program as defined in chapter 2 of this regulation. This involves gov-ernance oversight of HQ, TRADOC and major subordinate commander development and evaluation of accreditation stand-ards.  (2)  Army learning institution (to include TRADOC Centers of Excellence) QA Offices will have the autonomy and credibility needed to function as the eyes and ears of the commandants and commander. The office must keep the chain of command informed on the status of the functions within the DOTMLPF  P areas that promote learning institutions of excellence. They are also responsible for meeting TRADOC QAO reporting requirements. (3)  The QAO will maintain oversight of supporting QAEs in TRADOC Centers of Excellence with subordinate learning institutions. (4)  Responsibilities of the USARC and NGB (ARNG) QA officer/NCO that will execute the QA functions include coordination with TRADOC centers and schools in the development of RC courses/products, oversight of unit instructor certifications, and coordination with their aligned center/school QAO for RC TASS unit accreditations, and with the TRADOC QAO for TASS Multifunctional Training Brigade/Unit and ARNG regional training institute accreditations. This QA organization also will use the TRADOC-provided automated TASS Readiness Reporting System for instructor certification and scheduling validation. (5)  ASCCs and DRUs will identify appropriate organizations or points of contact for coordination/ oversight of insti-tutional accreditation as appropriate. 3  6.  Course information a.  Information concerning Army training courses is available through the ATRRS, established by AR 350  10 under direction of the DCS, G  1. The ATRRS is a centralized management database of individual training courses taught by and for Army personnel. The system provides the capability to monitor the individual training program for all courses taught by Army schools. b.  The ARPRINT generated by ATRRS provides all formal courses of instruction conducted by or for Army military and Army Civilian personnel. The ARPRINT includes training courses conducted by ACOMs, other services, nonmilitary schools, and foreign military services. c.  The ATRRS course catalog lists formal courses offered by Army schools and training centers. It provides general course descriptions and information concerning course prerequisites, special administrative requirements, frequency of training, and training locations. It also provides descriptions of inter-service training courses and DOD courses for Army personnel. d.  The ATRRS will be used as the system to record course requirements, availability, and historical course and student data available at https://www.atrrs.army.mil/atrrscc. Course completion data will be transmitted from ATRRS into the Soldiers ITR in DTMS. 3  7.  Conduct of Training and Training locations a.  Resident training will be conducted at centralized training sites that have the necessary ranges, accessible facilities (class-rooms, housing, subsistence, and so forth) and equipment to support all training requirements (for example, Army schools and training centers). Priority for conducting resident training will be determined by the training ACOM. b.  DL will be conducted at locations that have the resources needed to support the target population for the training. Off-site training may be delivered at the unit, at the organization, in Army Learning Centers, or at home. c.  The RC training battalions are authorized to conduct training in accordance with approved training strategies and proponent courseware. d.  TRADOC approves all waivers for instructor-to-student ratios, and instructor qualification requirements. e.  MTT for PME is by exception only (see para 2  21). 3  8.  Headquarters, Department of the Army mandatory training in institutions a.  HQDA mandatory training in institutions consists of HQDA-selected general subject areas in which individual Sol-diers and Army Civilians must be proficient to perform satisfactorily in a military organization. Training conducted in institutions is based on validated needs. b.  Proficiency in HQDA mandatory training subject matter is necessary for all Soldiers, regardless of branch/career field or rank/grade. HQDA Mandatory training requirements are limited to those subject areas directed by law and HQDA. The DCS, G  3/5/7, maintains centralized control over HQDA mandatory training requirements and reviews them bienni-ally or as necessary. 3  9.  Conduct of instruction a.  Small group instruction is the preferred method of conducting resident training in all training and leader development courses. (1)  Officer and Warrant Officer Candidate School commandants may use small group instruction methodology as per-mitted by local resources. (2)  Small group leader-to-student ratios range from 1:12 to 1:16. BLC and the CES Basic, Intermediate and Advanced courses are conducted at 1:6 to 1:8. ILE and USAWC will maintain ratios in accordance with JPME requirements in CJCSI 1800.01E. (3)  As an exception, manpower survey data may validate a larger or smaller group size because of equipment, facilities, availability of certified instructors, or other factors. Instructor-to-student ratios may be expanded when approved by DCS, G  3/5/7 (Director of Training). b.  The small group instruction shifts the teaching methodology from what to think to how to think. This type of instruction places responsibility on the student through group participation and assignments as discussion leaders. The small group instruction: (1)  Improves the learning environment by increasing interaction between and among students and the small group leader who serves as a leadership mentor, role model, and training facilitator for students throughout the course. (2)  Facilitates counseling, coaching, and team building. (3)  Enables instructors and students to share experiences and lessons learned. (4)  Fosters long-term professional relationships. (5)  Encourages instructor tactical and technical competence. (6)  Fosters self-learning through group participation. (7)  Improves student communicative skills. c.  Courses comprise leader, technical and tactical tasks, and supporting skills and knowledge that Soldiers or Army Civilians need or must perform to accomplish their duty position requirements. Training and education tasks will reflect the reality of operational environments. d.  Conditions for conducting and evaluating training will approximate operational environments for projected peace-time and wartime missions. e.  Performance standards will equal requirements for successful performance of tasks and related missions in projected operational environments. Standards will include requirements for students to recognize and respond to situational and condition changes by planning and executing doctrine-based initiatives within the commanders intent to accomplish the assigned mission. f.  Training environments will enhance learning, encourage student initiative, and require students to demonstrate high levels of discipline. The environment must be well defined, enforce standards, and maintain a steady focus on preparing students to lead subordinates during training, maintenance, deployment, sustained operations, and redeployment. Instruc-tional materials, facilities, and equipment will be used to support realistic training scenarios. g.  Requests for exceptions to policy or for changes in training standards will be addressed to the proponent. h.  Graduation or course-completion requirements will comply with the student evaluation plan prepared for each course. ASIs linked to MOSs will be evaluated independent of PME and will not be a PME graduation or course-comple-tion requirement. 3  10.  Eligibility a.  The following categories of personnel are eligible to attend Army schools and DOD schools operated by the Army: (1)  Military and Army Civilian personnel who meet criteria and course prerequisites. (2)  Military personnel of other services and Civilian personnel of other military departments who meet course criteria and prerequisites. (3)  Military and Civilian personnel from other nations that meet course criteria and prerequisites. (a)  When taking part in the security assistance program. (b)  When such training is determined to be in the best interest of the United States. (4)  Personnel employed by non-DOD Government agencies, local and state government agencies, on a space available and reimbursable basis, unless otherwise specified by formal agreement (memorandum of agreement) and/or directive. (5)  Industrial or research organization personnel under contract to the Government when such training: (a)  Is not otherwise available. (b)  Is essential for fulfillment of the contract and authorized by the contracting officer. (6)  Qualified service academy and ROTC cadets and midshipmen. (7)  Spouses of commander and command sergeants major (CSM) designees selected for attendance at the pre- com-mand course (PCC) or the CSM Battalion and Brigade PCC, respectively, may attend spouse designated courses in ac-cordance with DCS, G  3/5/7 guidance. (8)  Family members may attend or audit Army courses of instruction on a space available basis. Approval must be obtained from the school commandant and will be based on the following conditions: (a)  No additional expense will be incurred by the Army because the Family member is in attendance, except as stated above. (b)  The training or education is not available at a Civilian training or education facility within a reasonable commuting distance of the Family members residence. (c)  Family members of another Service student attending Army schools will be charged user fees as required. b.  The HRC will maintain a list of active duty officers eligible for attendance at Army, Joint, and other services schools and colleges for which they may not apply personally. Assignments to these schools will be monitored to ensure an order of precedence for attendance is maintained and the most highly qualified officers attend in the proper sequence of their career pattern. c.  Army officers will be board-selected for the following institutions: (1)  National Defense University Colleges, including: (a)  National War College. (b)  The Eisenhower School for National Security and Resource Strategy. (c)  Joint Advanced Warfare School. (d)  College of International Security Affairs (senior program only). (e)  College of Information and Cyberspace (CIC) (Senior program only). (2)  Army service colleges, including: (a)  U.S. Army War College (USAWC) (Resident, Fellowships and Distance programs) (b)  School of Advanced Military Studies (SAMS) senior program, Advanced Strategic leadership Studies Program (ASLSP). (c)  Command and General Staff College. (3)  Other courses, including: (a)  Inter-American Defense College. (b)  Senior colleges of other services. (c)  Intermediate colleges of other services. (d)  Any SSCs of other nations. (e)  Any intermediate service college of other nations. (f)  Selected DOD schools. d.  Army Civilians will be-board selected for the following institutions: (1)  Joint colleges. (a)  National War College. (b)  The Eisenhower School for National Security and Resource Strategy. (2)  USAWC. e.  Army attendees of the Defense Senior Leader Development Program (DSLDP) will be board-selected for the follow-ing institutions: (1)  Joint colleges. (a)  National War College. (b)  The Eisenhower School for National Security and Resource Strategy. (2)  USAWC. (3)  Other service colleges. (a)  Air War College. (b)  Naval War College. f.  Army Civilians will complete the CES Advanced Course or have equivalent credit as a prerequisite for attendance at any SSC. g.  CCC or WOAC are prerequisites for enrollment to CGSOC, WOILE or equivalent school/course. h.  Army graduates of one resident U.S. service college are not eligible to attend an equivalent-level resident course at another U.S. service college. i.  Army Civilian graduates of one resident SSC or USAWC Distance Education are not eligible to attend an equivalent-level course at another service college. j.  Army graduates of the resident Air Command and Staff College, the Naval College of Command and Staff, the Marine Corps Command and Staff College and equal-level foreign military schools, who are selected for their SSC are encouraged to attend the USAWC for their SSC education. Career Managers in coordination with HRC, Leader Development Division, with approval from CG HRC, will balance officers experience, prior education and preferences with Army requirements to slate officers to the appropriate SSC venue. k.  Students will be enrolled in Army school courses through ATRRS, with the following exception: SLCs (officers and Civilians). These students will be enrolled through the Human Resources Command, Senior Leader Development Office or Civilian Senior Leader Management Office. l.  Command and General Staff Officer Course (CGSOC) students will be enrolled in both the common core (DL) and the Advanced Operations Course (DL) in ATRRS and available at: https://cgsc2.leavenworth.army.mil/nrs. m.  Unit commanders will ensure that students enrolled in training are eligible, meet all course prerequisites, and are in compliance with Army standards. School commandants and/or commanders will provide a school welcome packet that identifies individual equipment and materials needed for course attendance. Students who report for training and have not met all course prerequisites will be returned to their units/organizations. n.  Officers and NCOs who volunteer or are selected for Inspector General duty must undergo a nomination process outlined in AR 20  1. Once The Inspector General approves an Inspector General nomination, the registrar of the U.S. Army Inspector General School at Fort Belvoir, VA, will enter the students name into ATRRS. The U.S. Army Inspector General School registrar is the only official authorized to enter an Inspector General student into ATRRS. o.  Students must satisfactorily complete all mandatory requirements, to include DL, identified in the student evaluation plan to graduate from the course. Commanders and supervisors will ensure students are exempt from all other duties. p.  Officers attending other courses and schools not specifically addressed in this section or approved by the J  7 as equivalent are not eligible for constructive, equivalent, or partial credit toward any PME program. 3  11.  Incurred obligations a.  Attendance at service schools will conform to stability guidelines. HRC may direct early termination or extension of military duty tours to accommodate school assignments in conjunction with a PCS. b.  Graduates of service schools and colleges normally will complete an intervening tour of non-student duty before attending another service school or college. c.  Officers attending military schooling incur service obligations in accordance with AR 135  91 (RC) and AR 350  100 (RA). d.  Warrant officer obligations are governed by AR 350  100. e.  Service obligations for NCOES graduates are governed by AR 614  200 (RA), AR 600  8  19,  and AR 135  200 (RC). The time-in-service (TIS) requirement must be met prior to departure for the course. A DA Form 4991  R (Declina-tion of Continued Service Statement) is required for Soldiers serving on their second or subsequent enlistment, selected for an NCOES course, but who do not have sufficient TIS remaining, decide not to extend their term of enlistment, or do not reenlist. Instructions for completing a Declination of Continued Service Statement are in AR 601  280. f.  In accordance with the 5 USC 4108(a)(1), Army Civilians incur continued service obligations at least equal to three times the length of the training period, to begin upon the employees return to duty following training completion. g.  Army Civilians attending SSCs are obligated to take a follow-on assignment to a position that provides full utilization of leadership skills and competencies acquired at training. 3  12.  Selection of Soldiers and Army Civilians for training and education a.  Selection of Soldiers for leader training and education courses is linked to promotions, future assignments, and career management. Selection of Army Civilians for leader training and education courses is linked to current position responsi-bilities and career progression. Selection for functional and specialty courses are linked to operational assignments that require competency-based, knowledge, skills, abilities and other work-related requirements not trained in the OES, NCOES, or CES courses, as applicable. Prerequisites for courses are in the ATRRS course catalog. b.  The DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate), will publish annual guidance for Army students to attend senior level PME at Army schools, foreign schools, and other service schools senior leader training and education. Specialty training requirements/seat allocations for course attendance in a TDY and return status will be identified by command through ATRRS for reservation acceptance and verification. The HRC will identify Soldiers and make reservations for course attendance in ATRRS. c.  Merit based selection boards will be conducted to consider Army officers regardless of component or branch for resident and 14-week satellite campus based on ILE eligibility criteria (see para 339b) and a best qualified basis. RA Army Competitive Category officers will also be considered for select credentialing programs approved in lieu of CGSOC, Advanced Operations Course. The selection of officers will be in accordance with the ILE quota memorandum prepared by the DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate). The DCS, G  1 will exercise general staff supervision over the ILE selection system for RA Army Competitive Category officers; the DARNG will exercise staff supervision over the ILE selection system for ARNG officers; and the CAR will exercise staff supervision over the ILE selection system for USAR officers. RA special branches (JAGC, Chaplains, and AMEDD) will conduct separate ILE selection boards. Intermediate-level schools and colleges are: (1)  U.S. Army, Command and General Staff College. (2)  Air Command and Staff College. (3)  Marine Corps Command and Staff College. (4)  Naval College of Command and Staff. (5)  Western Hemisphere Institute For Security Cooperation. (6)  Foreign equivalent schools approved by the CJCS. d.  The HQDA SSC Selection Board will select active duty officers to attend SSCs, foreign schools and USAWC fel-lowships based on SSC criteria and a best-qualified basis. The DARNG and the CAR will select ARNG and USAR officers, respectively. Army Civilians will be selected to attend SSCs through the Senior Enterprise Talent Management (SETM) Program as set forth in paragraph 4-16. The use of third party agreements by SSC Commandants that allow Army Officers to attend any SSC will not be recognized unless endorsed by DCS, G  3/5/7. The Army Approved SSC venues are as follows: (1)  USAWC (both resident (awards JPME II) and distance education programs (DEPs) (only military education level (MEL) 1, awards JPME I)). (2)  Advanced Strategic Leadership Studies Program (awards JPME II) at the School of Advanced Military Studies (SAMS) (3)  National War College (Resident Only) (awards JPME II). (4)  Eisenhower School for National Security and Resource Strategy (Resident only) (awards JPME II). (5)  College of International Security Affairs (CISA) (Resident senior program only) (awards JPME II). (6)  College of Information and Cyberspace (CIC) (JPME II only for Senior Program) (7)  Air War College (Resident Only) (awards JPME II). (8)  Naval War College (Resident Only) (awards JPME II). (9)  Marine Corps War College (Resident Only) (awards JPME II). (10)  USAWC Fellowships (only MEL 1). (See HRC SSC Preference website for available schools and locations) (11)  Foreign equivalent schools approved by DCS, G  3/5/7 Strategy, Plans and Policy Directorate (see app D). (12)  Joint Advanced Warfare School conducted at Joint Forces Staff College, Norfolk, VA (awards JPME II). e.  Officers may apply for either of the following: (1)  Specialized schools when interest or aptitude is a factor in selection or when attendance is restricted to volunteers. (2)  Courses that provide training on tasks and the supporting knowledge, skills, and experience required for a duty assignment or specialty under provisions of the Officer Personnel Management System. f.  Army Civilians are eligible to attend functional training offered at TRADOC and Army Medical Department Center and School. Courses are traditionally offered for military personnel when the following conditions are met: (1)  Seat otherwise filled by military would remain vacant. (2)  Student possesses the qualifications and meets the prerequisites to take the course. (3)  Course registration must be completed through ATRRS. (4)  Travel and per diem costs are the responsibility of the commands. g.  Upon announcement of a change in assignment, a general officer is scheduled for inter-assignment training through the Senior Leader Development Office. This training consists of briefings from selected HQDA, ACOM, OSD, and DOD personnel. The GOs may attend specific training courses managed by Senior Leader Development Office to further support their transition into the new assignment. The Senior Leader Development Office provides the coordination and funding guidance necessary to effect this training. h.  HRC schedules WOs to attend WOAC, WOILE, and WOSSE. RA Technical Services WOs and all ARNG and USAR WOs are expected to complete WOAC prior to promotion to CW3; WOILE prior to promotion to CW4; and, WOSSE prior to promotion to CW5. All RA Aviation WOs are expected to complete WOAC within to 2 years after selection for promotion to CW3; WOILE within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW4; and, WOSSE within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW5. i.  The Select Train Educate and Promote (STEP) enlisted career management process will ensure NCOs have the ap-propriate skills and knowledge required before assuming the duties and responsibilities of the next higher grade. The NCOPDS is a functional component of the EPMS. Under the EPMS, the training of qualified NCOs is ensured through a combination of centralized management by HRC and decentralized management by field commands. Selection for NCOES courses represents a considerable resource investment by the Army. It is an excellent career opportunity and advantage for selected individuals. Therefore, individuals will be selected for these courses in accordance with the following guidelines: (1)  Individuals must meet course prerequisites and have demonstrated high levels of performance, mental capacity, aptitude, and self-discipline that clearly indicate potential for continued development. (2)  Individuals must be fully qualified to perform tasks at their current skill level, be recommended by their chain of command, have their personal and financial affairs in order, have required clothing and equipment, and be mentally and physically prepared for all course requirements. j.  Enlisted Soldiers who have been selected for promotion and are performing in, or pending assignment to, duty posi-tions for which the training is designed will be scheduled to attend NCOES courses. Attendance will be on a priority basis as allocations become available. The following training priorities ensure that the NCOES meets the needs of the Army and the development needs of the NCO: (1)  The first priority is for Soldiers who have been selected for promotion and are performing in duty positions for which the training is established. (2)  The second priority is for Soldiers who have been selected for promotion and are pending assignment to a duty position in their primary MOS for which the training is established. (3)  The third priority is for Soldiers who have not been selected for promotion and are pending assignment to a duty position in their primary MOS for which the training is established. k.  Unit commanders select SPC for promotion to SGT. This selection serves as notification for attendance at BLC. Individuals are placed on the order of merit list (OML) by the unit commander, which governs the timing for course attendance in accordance with the priorities described in paragraph 3  56 of this regulation.  l.  HRC centrally manages RA Soldier selection for, and schedules attendance at ALC, SLC, Master Leader Course (MLC), SMC, and the Battalion/Brigade PCC/CSM Course per established HRC priorities. m.  Unit commanders select and submit requests through command channels for Soldiers to attend Battle Staff Non-commissioned Officer Course. Centralized school managers at the installation, division, or ACOM will approve requests and make ATRRS reservations. n.  RC commanders use the same criteria as the RA to select and schedule Soldiers to attend NCOES courses. (1)  Within the RC, only Soldiers selected for promotion or those who must become qualified at their current grade to be eligible to attend the next level of NCOPDS. Selectees must meet the course prerequisites outlined in the ATRRS course catalog. (2)  The CNGB/CAR selects and schedules RC Soldiers to attend the SMC. (a)  The Director, USAR Active Duty Management Directorate selects and schedules USAR AGR Soldiers. (b)  The Commander, HRC, selects and schedules Individual Mobilization Augmentee and IRR Soldiers. (c)  USAR major subordinate commands and/or units select all other USAR Soldiers courses. (3)  State Adjutants General; commanders of USAR major subordinate commands; and the Commander, HRC will se-lect and schedule RC Soldiers for all other NCOPDS. o.  Attendance at the Command Team Training and Education four-phase program is mandatory for all battalion and brigade CSL selected officers (commanders and key billets), Civilians and CSM select as specified in paragraph 3  39. Commanders, command sergeants major and key billets (G  1, G  2, G  6, G  8, public affairs office (PAO), acquisition CSL key billets) will attend PCC Phase I prior to assuming command and responsibility. Regular Army commanders who cannot attend prior to assuming command require Vice Chief of Staff of the Army approval. RA Command Sergeants Major who cannot attend prior to as assuming responsibility requires Commander, HRC approval. Acquisition CSL key billet attendees who cannot attend command preparation training prior to assuming their position require Army acquisition executive approval. 3  13.  Physical readiness and height and weight requirements for military institutional training a.  This paragraph provides policy concerning physical readiness and body fat standards applicable to institutional train-ing. All Soldiers attending institutional training courses are expected to meet the physical readiness standards of this reg-ulation and body fat standards in accordance with AR 600  9. b.  Soldiers flagged for Army Physical Fitness Test (APFT) failure or body fat composition will not be selected, sched-uled, or attend institutional training. Once Soldiers meet standards, they will be considered eligible for military schools and institutional training courses. c.  APFT Soldiers attending the following PME schools and courses: SSC, USASMA, Joint Special Operation Forces Senior Enlisted Academy (JSOFSEA), CCC, CGSOC, WOAC, WOILE, WOSSE, NLC, ALC, SLC, MLC, and BLC, will be administered the APFT (for record) as a course requirement. Proponents of functional training courses may require an APFT, as either an entrance or graduation requirement, regardless of their length. (1)  Successful completion of the APFT is mandatory for course graduation (See also para 314f). Soldiers attending the identified PME schools and courses will be administered an initial APFT. For PME courses with multiple phases, the initial APFT will be administered during the first phase of the resident course. (2)  One APFT retest is allowed, it will be administered no earlier than seven days and no later than 24 days after the initial failure of the APFT. (3)  Soldiers who subsequently fail to meet the physical fitness standards will be removed from the course. (4)  School commandants will ensure Soldiers returning from combat operations/overseas contingency operations de-ployment, reporting directly to a PME course meet the APFT standards prior to graduation. (5)  For recruiter, drill sergeant, airborne and ranger courses, and other schools requiring separate physical readiness standards, the CG, TRADOC will recommend physical readiness standards to DCS, G  3/5/7 for review and approval. Soldiers who fail to meet these standards will be denied enrollment and returned to their unit of assignment. d.  Height and weight screening and body composition standards. (1)  Policy for height and weight screening standards and body composition standards are contained in AR 600  9. (2)  Soldiers attending military schools and institutional training courses, in either a PCS or TDY status, which require preparation of a DA Form 1059 (Service School Academic Evaluation Report) will be administered height and weight screening as a mandatory course requirement. (3)  One re-screening is allowed. It will be administered no earlier than seven days and no later than 24 days after the initial failure to meet body composition standards. (4)  Soldiers who subsequently fail to meet the body composition standards of AR 600  9 will be removed from the course. e.  The DA Form 1059 of Soldiers who fail to pass the APFT and/or meet body fat composition standards will be anno-tated in block 11d failed to Achieve Course Standards. Soldiers who fail to achieve course standards are not eligible to enroll in any PME courses for 6 months after their dismissal. The 6-month waiting period begins on the day after the DA Form 1059 is signed. Soldiers who fail to achieve course standards a second time are not eligible to enroll in any PME courses for 1 year after the second failure. School commandants and commanders will take the following actions for Soldiers who fail to meet APFT and/or body fat composition standards: (1)  Regular Army Soldiers. (a)  Soldiers in TDY and return status will be returned to their unit of assignment. Commandants and/or commanders will send a memorandum to the first general officer in the Soldiers chain of command stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that he/she failed to achieve course standards. Unit commanders will initiate appropriate actions to include flagging per AR 600  8  2, changing the immediate reenlistment prohibition code as appropriate and/or initiating a bar to reenlist-ment. (b)  Soldiers in a TDY en-route status will be attached to the installation pending clarification of assignment instructions for their follow-on assignment. The school commandant and/or commander will notify HRC of the Soldiers ineligibility for training and request clarification of assignment instructions. Upon receipt of assignment instructions, the school com-mandant or commander will send a memorandum to the first general officer in the Soldiers chain of command at the gaining installation stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that he/she failed to achieve course standards. Upon arrival at gaining installation, the unit commander will initiate appropriate actions to include flagging per AR 600  8  2 changing the immediate reenlistment prohibition code as appropriate and/or initiate a bar to reenlistment. (c)  Soldiers in a PCS status will be attached to the installation pending clarification of assignment instructions. The school commandant and/or commander will notify HRC of the Soldiers ineligibility for training and request assignment instructions. The school commandant or commander will initiate appropriate actions to include flagging per AR 600  8  2, changing immediate reenlistment prohibition code as appropriate and/or a bar to reenlistment. (2)  Army National Guard. (a)  32 USC M-day and AGR Soldiers in a TDY and return status will return to their home unit. School commandants and/or commanders will send a memorandum to the Soldiers State Adjutant General in the Soldiers chain of command stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that he/she failed to achieve course standards. (b)  32 USC M-day and AGR Soldiers in a PCS status will return to their home stations. School commandants and/or commanders will send a memorandum to the Soldiers State Adjutant General in the Soldiers chain of command stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that they failed to achieve course standards. (c)  10 USC AGR Soldiers in a TDY and return status will return to their home unit. School commandants and/or com-manders will send a memorandum to Chief of Staff, NGB, and the first general officer in the Soldiers appropriate chain of command stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that he/she failed to achieve course standards. (d)  10 USC AGR Soldiers in a TDY en route status will proceed to their next permanent duty station. School comman-dants and/or commanders will send a memorandum to Chief of Staff, NGB, and the first general officer in the Soldiers appropriate chain of command stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that they failed to achieve course standards. (e)  10 USC AGR Soldiers in a PCS status will be attached to the Office of the Senior ARNG Advisor at the receiving installation pending receipt of assignment instructions. School commandants and/or commanders will send a memorandum to Chief of Staff, NGB, and the first general officer in the Soldiers appropriate chain of command stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that they failed to achieve course standards. (3)  U.S. Army Reserve. (a)  TPU/Individual Mobilization Augmentee and AGR Soldiers in TDY and return status will return to their home units. School commandants and/or commanders will send a memorandum to the first general officer in the Soldiers chain of command stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that he/she failed to achieve course standards. The unit commander will initiate appropriate actions, to include flagging per AR 600  8  2, changing the immediate reenlistment prohibition code as appropriate and/or initiating a bar to reenlistment. (b)  IRR Soldiers in TDY and return status will return home. School commandants and/or commander will send a mem-orandum to Commander, HRC, stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that he/she failed to achieve course standards. The unit commander will initiate appropriate actions, to include flagging per AR 600  8  2, changing the immediate reenlist-ment prohibition code as appropriate and/or initiating a bar to reenlistment. (c)  The AGR Soldiers in a TDY en route status will be attached to the installation where they were to receive training pending clarification of assignment instructions. School commandants and/or commanders will notify HRC of the Soldiers ineligibility for training and request assignment instructions. The school commandant or commander will notify the first general officer in the chain of command of the gaining unit stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that he/she failed to achieve course standards. The unit commander will initiate appropriate actions, to include flagging per AR 600  8  2, changing the immediate reenlistment prohibition code as appropriate and/or initiating a bar to reenlistment. (d)  The AGR Soldiers in a PCS status will be attached to the Army Reserve Liaison Office pending clarification of assignment instructions from HRC. Commandants and/or commanders will immediately notify HRC, that Soldiers in PCS status failed to achieve course standards and need HRC to clarify assignment instructions. The unit commander will initiate appropriate actions, to include flagging per AR 600  8  2, changing the immediate reenlistment prohibition code as appro-priate and/or initiating a bar to reenlistment. f.  Soldiers in the JAGC or AMEDD who fail to achieve course standards will have a memorandum sent to the first general officer in the Soldiers chain of command from the schools commandant and/or commander stating the Soldiers deficiencies and that they failed to achieve course standards. In addition, these Soldiers will be reported as course failures to the OTJAG or OTSG, respectively and will include a brief synopsis of the reason the Soldier failed to achieve course standards. The unit commander will initiate appropriate actions, to include flagging per AR 600  8  2, changing the imme-diate reenlistment prohibition code as appropriate and/or initiating a bar to reenlistment. (1)  The requirement to meet height and weight standards or pass a record APFT during AMEDD BOLC  B does not include those AMEDD officers who have incurred a statutory active duty service obligation (ADSO) for participating in Army sponsored education and training programs such as the Armed Forces health professions Scholarship program (HSSP), or the Uniform Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS), in accordance with 10 USC, Chapters 105. (2)  To successfully complete BOLC  B, officers who access via HPSP and USUHS must complete all AMEDD HPSP/USUHS BOLC  B course requirements and common tasks, and be administered a diagnostic APFT to determine initial levels of physical fitness. It is expected that officers will come into record APFT and body composition (HT  WT) compliance within 6 months of their first unit of assignment. g.  School commandants are responsible for updating the Soldiers ATRRS record with the appropriate reason and status codes to show that they are a course failure. h.  Unit commanders and/or CSMs are expected to counsel Soldiers and take appropriate actions to correct deficiencies for all Soldiers failing the APFT and/or body composition standards at institutional training. i.  This policy does not apply to IMT, Duty Military Occupational Specialty Qualification training, and Soldiers attend-ing reclassification training. j.  Officer Evaluation System policy clarifications. (1)  Lieutenants who are delayed within the training base 30 or more days for any reason (for example: Class recycles, medical holds, security clearance problems, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) beyond the initial TDY period will be diverted from their initial PCS assignment and assigned in a PCS status at their TDY location effective the date HRC is notified of the requirement to divert the Soldier. Commander, HRC will notify the order-issuing official of diversion so TDY order can be amended to stop per diem entitlements effective the date HRC is notified. Those delayed fewer than 30 days will remain in a TDY status and the order-issuing official will be notified to amend the order extending per diem entitlements. (2)  Officers will meet body composition standards in accordance with AR 600  9 and will pass a record APFT prior to graduating from the BOLC B course. Any Regular Army officer who does not meet body composition standards per AR 600  9 and pass the APFT prior to graduation will remain at the training institution until they have met the requirements, or are processed for elimination subject to the requirements and procedures of AR 600  8  24. Any ARNG or USAR officer who does not meet the body composition standards per AR 600  9 and pass the APFT prior to graduation will be withdrawn from the course and returned to their parent unit for disposition. ARNG and USAR officers will not be allowed to apply for constructive credit once they return to their units. The only recourse will be to return to their branch BOLC  B, repeat the entire course and meet the graduation standards, or be processed for elimination from the Army. In the case of any officers, whose profile prevents them from taking the APFT or alternate APFT, the APFT requirement may be waived if the officer in question has passed a record APFT within one year prior to the date of graduation from the BOLC B course. If there is no record APFT within the one year time period, the officer will be retained at TRADOC until he/she either passes the APFT or is processed for elimination subject to the requirements and procedures of AR 600  8  24. (3)  Candidates applying to WOCS or OCS must pass the standard three-event APFT as an enrollment requirement. The Soldier must also be able to walk the 6.2 mile foot march for WOCS or the 12 plus miles for OCS with 48 lbs. in their rucksack within school time parameters. If a Soldier enrolling in WOCS or OCS fails the initial APFT, the Soldier will be denied enrollment but allowed one retest with a subsequent class. Soldiers failing the second APFT will be considered ineligible for enrollment and must reapply for OCS or WOCS selection not earlier than 1 year after denial of enrollment. k.  DA Civilian attendance at military schools. Physical readiness and body composition standards do not apply to DA Civilian personnel. These students may participate in physical readiness programs on a voluntary basis. l.  Departmental and International students. Members of other military departments and international students must meet the physical readiness standards of their service/country when attending an Army course of instruction, except for special-ized courses such as Airborne, Ranger, and Special Forces courses where they will be required to meet the same standard as Soldiers attending those courses. All other international students will be encouraged to participate in physical training programs. Local commanders may require participation in formation and physical training to the best of an individuals ability. 3  14.  Physical profiles a.  Profiles. Soldiers with medical profiles due to operational deployment will be permitted by their immediate com-manders to attend appropriate courses (to include PME) within the guidelines of their profile. Soldiers must arrive at the aforementioned courses of instruction with a copy of their current profile and a memorandum signed by their commander stating the profile has been continuous and is a result of injuries sustained due to operational deployment. b.  Soldiers with temporary profiles preventing full participation in a course that are not a result of operational deploy-ment will be removed or deferred from school attendance consideration by their immediate commander until the temporary profile is removed. c.  Soldiers with a permanent designator of 2 in the physical profile must include a copy of DA Form 3349 (Physical Profile) as part of the course application. They will be eligible to attend courses (to include PME) and train within the limits of their profile provided they can meet course graduation requirements. Soldiers with a permanent designator of 3 or 4 in their physical profile must include a copy of DA Form 3349 and the results of their MOS Administrative Retention Review as part of the course application. d.  Soldiers who have been before an MOS Administrative Retention Review and retained in their MOS or reclassified into another MOS are eligible to attend appropriate courses (to include PME) and train within the limits of their physical profile (DA Form 3349). Commandants will not disenroll nor deny enrollment of Soldiers into the training based on phys-ical limiting conditions on their physical profile in accordance with MOS Administrative Retention Review adjudication. e.  Soldiers retained through the Continuation on Active Duty/Continuation on Active Reserve process are eligible to attend courses (to include PME) and train within the limits of their physical profile (DA Form 3349). f.  Soldiers receiving temporary or permanent physical profile limitations after starting resident training courses will be evaluated by school commandants and commanders for continued enrollment. Soldiers who: (1)  Have met, or will be able to meet graduation requirements, will continue to be trained within the limits of their profile. (2)  Are unable to meet graduation requirements will return to their unit or proceed to their PCS unit, and may, if eligible, be enrolled in a later course. 3  15.  Student dismissal a.  Under certain conditions, students may be dismissed from courses before course completion. To protect students from unfair, illegal, or prejudicial practices, school commandants and commanders will publish policies and establish procedures to determine if students should be dismissed from training. Policy and procedures will ensure timely execution of review. b.  Students may be considered for dismissal from courses for the following reasons: (1)  Personal conduct is such that continuance in the course is not appropriate (for example, if a student violates regula-tions, policies, or established discipline standards). No formal adjudication of guilt by a military or civilian court or by a commander under UCMJ, Art. 15 is necessary to support dismissal under this paragraph. (2)  Negative attitude or lack of motivation, either of which is prejudicial to the interests of other students in the class. (3)  Academic deficiency demonstrated by failure to meet course standards or lack of academic progress that makes it unlikely that the student can successfully meet the standards established for graduation. (4)  Illness or injury (as determined by a physician), or added physical profile limitation. (5)  Compassionate reasons. (6)  Students enrolled as a military member retiring or leaving the military and not continuing in a federal civilian ca-pacity. c.  In establishing student dismissal procedures: (1)  Ensure fair and equitable processes to adjudicate individual cases. (2)  Adhere to Army policies and standards. (3)  Inform students of the course and training completion requirements prior to the start of the training and education. (4)  Obtain servicing Office of the Staff Judge Advocate review of dismissal procedures prior to promulgation. d.  Students being considered for dismissal must have been counseled by the chain of command (usually the assigned trainer or small group leader, the course manager, and the school commandant or commander, or a designated representa-tive who has direct responsibility for the course), with an opportunity to correct deficiencies, prior to consideration for dismissal. Counseling sessions will be documented and signed by all counselors and acknowledged by the student. All counseling forms will be maintained with the students records. Additionally, the school commandant or designated rep-resentative will notify the commander of the students parent unit or parent organization, when possible. e.  The following procedures apply in cases where dismissal is considered for motivational, disciplinary, or academic reasons: (1)  The training supervisor will notify the student in writing of the proposed action, the basis for the action, the conse-quences of disenrollment, and the right to appeal. The supervisor will advise the student that any appeal must be submitted within 7 duty days after receipt of the written notification of the dismissal action. Appeals will be submitted to the school commandant or commander. (2)  The student will acknowledge by endorsement within 2 duty days receipt of the written notification of dismissal action. The endorsement must indicate whether or not the student intends to appeal the dismissal action. The written noti-fication must advise the student of the right to appeal within 7 duty days to the school commandant or commander. (3)  A DA Civilians chain of command will be notified and they will be returned to their organization upon dismissal from class for disciplinary, academic or motivational reasons. (4)  Appeals will be forwarded to the school commandant or commander who will refer the proposed action and the appeal to the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate to determine legal sufficiency of the dismissal decision. All appellate actions will become part of the students case file. Commandants and commanders will make their final decision on dis-missals after considering the supporting Office of the Staff Judge Advocate recommendation. In cases where an Office of the Staff Judge Advocate is not available, the commandant or commander will forward appeals to the commander who has General Court Martial Convening authority for review and final decision; General Court Martial Convening Authorities will obtain a legal review before final action. (5)  Students who elect to appeal will remain actively enrolled in the course pending disposition of their appeals. When the commandant and/or commander determines that a students continued participation with the main student body is contrary to good order, discipline or morale, the student will stay enrolled in the class and continue course work separate from the main student body. In cases where the decision of the appeal is delayed, students will participate in graduation ceremonies; however, the DA Form 1059 will be withheld until final adjudication. f.  Dismissals for misconduct, lack of motivation, academic deficiency, or failure to maintain physical readiness or body composition standards (for officers) will be recorded on the individuals DA Form 1059, if applicable, in accordance with AR 623  3. Foreign student dismissals will be handled in accordance with AR 12  15. (1)  In accordance with AR 600  8  2, officers, warrant officers, and enlisted Soldiers disenrolled for disciplinary reasons may be flagged. Enlisted Soldiers disenrolled for misconduct may be barred from reenlistment in accordance with AR 601  280 and AR 140  111. Commanders of the disenrolled Soldiers (not the commander of the school) may initiate sepa-ration proceedings in accordance with AR 135  175, AR 135  178, AR 635  200, or AR 600  8  24. (2)  Disenrollment for illness, injury, compassionate transfer, or other reasons beyond the control of the individual will be made without prejudice. The school commandant or commander will provide a written statement to the students unit or organization stating the reason for termination and that the student will be eligible to re-enroll as soon as conditions that led to disenrollment no longer exist. (3)  Soldiers disenrolled from BLC for disciplinary or motivational reasons will not be eligible for further NCOES training for a period of 6 months. (4)  NCOES disenrollment policy is as follows: (a)  Soldiers disenrolled from BLC, ALC, SLC or MLC for other than compassionate or medical reasons may apply to reenter and be re-scheduled for the course when both the unit commander and the student or Soldier determine that they are prepared to complete the course. (b)  Soldiers disenrolled from the U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy (USASMA) for any reason other than compas-sionate or medical reasons will not be eligible to re-enter the course. The school commandant will notify the Soldiers career management branch of the recommendation that the Soldier be rescheduled for training for those courses where scheduling is accomplished by HRC. (5)  Soldiers eliminated from NCOES who later re-enroll. For phased courses, only complete the phase repeated. (6)  Students dismissed from training for academic deficiency may be considered by their chain of command for retrain-ing in their present occupational specialty or training for reclassification in another occupational specialty. (7)  ARNG Soldiers eliminated from NCOES courses for other than compassionate or medical reasons may not attend another NCOES course unless selected by a subsequent promotion selection board. (8)  ARNG Soldiers disenrolled from SMC may not re-enter the course. g.  For ARNG Soldiers on full-time National Guard duty under 32 USC, school commandants and commanders will forward an ARNG Soldiers case to the State Adjutant General for appropriate disposition. h.  School commandants and commanders will ensure student records are complete and audit trails are maintained for all personnel actions. i.  School commandants and commanders will report all RA NCO dismissals and enrollment denials to: CG, HRC (HRC  EPF  S) 1600 Spearhead Division Ave, Fort Knox, Kentucky, 40121. Upon completion of the DA Form 1059, commandants and commanders will forward a copy electronically to the NCOPDS Branch, HRC. The following infor-mation will be provided: (1)  Date of enrollment denial or dismissal. (2)  Complete address of the students unit of assignment. (3)  A brief synopsis of the reason(s) for enrollment denial/dismissal. j.  The school will make an appropriate ATRRS entry on all students dismissed from courses within two duty days of the day the dismissal is approved. k.  Dismissal of USAR Soldiers in initial active duty for training, ADT, and AGR status will be reported to the appro-priate convening/promotion authority for TPU Soldiers. l.  Dismissal of the ARNG AGR 10 USC Soldiers will be reported to the DARNG and to the appropriate State Adjutant General for other ARNG Soldiers. m.  If appropriate, school commandants and commanders shall coordinate with the USARC, G  7 or the relevant State Adjutant General to ensure that the dismissed RC Soldiers are properly released from active duty or full-time ARNG duty, as appropriate. n.  The Commandant, CGSOC, will establish procedures for the dismissal and disenrollment of students from the non-resident CGSOC under the following conditions: (1)  Students transferred to inactive status unless they voluntarily request to continue participation in the course in ac-cordance with AR 140  10. (2)  Students who resign or are discharged from the service. (3)  Students who become academic failures. (4)  Students who fail to complete the academic requirements of either the Common Core or Advanced Operations Courses within published course standards (see course information on ATRRS). (5)  Students found to have been enrolled based on false information regarding eligibility criteria. (6)  Students who fail to comply with the colleges published ethical standards. (7)  Students who request voluntary disenrollment for deployments, medical, or personal reasons. o.  The Commandant, USAWC will establish procedures for the disenrollment of students from the USAWC Resident or DEPs. Students may be disenrolled: (1)  For cause. (2)  For academic failure or lack of academic progress. If a student falls behind in the course to the extent that, in the judgment of the commandant, there is insufficient time remaining before each summer resident phase to complete the years work, the student may be disenrolled. (3)  At the students request. Students will send requests for voluntary disenrollment directly to the Commandant, USAWC, Carlisle Barracks, PA 17013  5050. p.  Students who have been disenrolled from the USAWC DEP may not reapply or be re-enrolled unless: (1)  The students original disenrollment was voluntary and not the result of a lack of academic progress, failure to maintain academic standards, or misconduct. (2)  The student receives no constructive credit for any previously completed work. q.  When dismissal of a military student of another nation is contemplated, a complete report will be submitted to the TRADOC Security Assistance Training Field Activity. Final authority for dismissal of military students of other nations rests with the CG, TRADOC in accordance with AR 12  15. r.  The Commandant, USAWOCC will disenroll the following students from the branch-immaterial WOILE and WOSSE phases under the following conditions: (1)  Students who resign or are discharged from the service. (2)  Students who enrolled in the branch-immaterial phase 1 (DL) and become academic failures or who fail to complete the academic requirements of the course within the allotted time. Application for reenrollment must include a memorandum from the first O  6 stating what actions the individual will take to successfully complete the DL upon reenrollment. (3)  Students who enrolled in the branch-immaterial resident phase 2 and became academic failures. (4)  Students found to have been enrolled based on false information regarding eligibility criteria. (5)  Students who fail to comply with the USAWOCC published ethical standards. (6)  Students who request disenrollment for compassionate reasons. 3  16.  Removal from course consideration or selection lists Soldiers may be removed from course consideration or course selection lists for disciplinary reasons or substandard per-formance of duty. The following procedures apply: a.  A flagging, in accordance with AR 600  8  2, or removal action may be initiated by any commander in the individ-uals chain of command.  For course removal actions against DA Civilians, the action will be initiated by the appropriate first line supervisor. b.  A flagging or removal action must contain a statement that the individual has been (1)  Notified in writing of the proposed action. (2)  Informed of the consequences of flagging or removal. (3)  Afforded a reasonable period of time (generally not fewer than five duty days after receipt of the notification) in which to submit a rebuttal. c.  WOAC. RA Technical Services WOs and all ARNG and USAR WOs are expected to complete WOAC prior to promotion to CW3. All RA Aviation WOs are expected to complete WOAC within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW3. The WOAC RA backlog will include all RA CW3s who have not completed WOAC. The WOAC RC backlog will include all RC CW2s eligible for promotion and CW3s who have not completed WOAC. d.  The unit of assignment will report approved removal actions on RA and RC personnel to CG, HRC (appropriate career branch) 1600 Spearhead Division Ave, Fort Knox, KY, 40121. Report TPU Soldier removals to the appropriate convening/promotion authority. Report ARNG removals to DARNG, (NGB  ARP), 111 S. George Mason Dr., Arlington, VA 20244  1382, and the respective State Adjutant General. The report will include: the list from which the Soldier is removed and the date of removal (not needed for flags), and a brief synopsis of the reason(s) for flagging or removal. e.  A DA Civilians removal from course consideration will be determined by the individuals supervisor or commander. 3  17.  Deferment Soldiers and Army Civilians selected to attend courses will attend the class for which selected, unless deferred by the selection authority. There are three categories of deferment: compassionate, medical, and operational. Requests for defer-ment will be processed in the following manner: a.  Compassionate deferment. (1)  Soldiers selected to attend NCOES courses in a TDY-en route status who request deferment for compassionate or emergency reasons will submit the request and supporting information through command channels to CG, HRC, HRC  EPF  S(appropriate career branch), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY, 40121. (2)  Requests for compassionate deferment for Soldiers attending ALC or SLC courses in TDY-and-return status will be submitted through command channels to HRC for ALC, (appropriate career branch) for SLC. (3)  Requests for deferment for active duty personnel selected to attend the SMC will be submitted through command channels to HRC. (4)  Students enrolled in the Sergeant Major Nonresident Course may request deferment to a later class in the resident phase for emergency or medical reasons. Requests for deferment will be forwarded through command channels to: Army, HRC; Chief, NGB (DARNG), or the CAR, as appropriate. b.  Medical deferment. (1)  Deferment for medical reasons may be requested when the individuals physical condition will not allow full par-ticipation in the selected course. (2)  Students enrolled or selected to attend an OES or NCOES PME course greater than 6 months in duration will be dis-enrolled and deferred to a future class or, at the discretion of Human Resources Command, provided an alternate means of PME course completion (distance learning or satellite campus if available) should they present a medical condition (profile) which will cause them to miss 29 or more academic days. An Academic Day is defined as any day where struc-tured, instructor facilitated classes are held. Medical deferments will be processed following the procedures for enrollment denials. Individuals receiving a medical deferment will be eligible for enrollment when the condition leading to the medical deferment no longer exists. c.  Operational deferment.  Operational deferment will only be granted for unit deployments. The reason for deferment will be provided to CG, HRC (HRC  EPF  S), Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, Kentucky, 40121, in accordance with instructions on the Standard Trainee Management System Roster Letter of Instruction. d.  Noncommissioned officer evaluation system Deferment Process.  Success of the STEP career management model requires soldiers to attend their requisite NCO PME to ensure a sustainable promotion cycle and maintain readiness across our force. Deferment of NCO Professional Military Education (PME) course should be prevented. An initial NCO PME deferment request will require endorsement by the first general officer or equivalent in the Soldiers chain of command. A second NCO PME deferment request for the same NCO PME level must be signed by the next higher level general officer (or equivalent) in an NCOs chain of command. All deferment requests must be forwarded to HRC for approval and state whether an NCO is available for an alternate date. (1)  Operational deferments are applicable in the event of unit deployment or a major training exercise in support of unit deployment. The request must be signed by the first general officer or equivalent in the Soldiers chain of command. (2)  Compassionate deferments are applicable in extenuating circumstances that require the soldiers presence elsewhere for personal reasons. The request must be signed by the first general officer or equivalent in the Soldiers chain of command. (3)  Medical deferments are applicable when the soldier is not medically qualified to attend the NCO PME course as determined by an army medical provider. The request must be signed by the first general officer or equivalent in the Soldiers chain of command. e.  Army Civilians selected for SSC or DSLDP will submit compassionate, medical and operational deferment requests and supporting information through command channels to, the Director of Training, Civilian Training and Leader Devel-opment (DAMO  TRV), 450 Pentagon (Room 2D639), Washington DC 20310  0450. (1)  Deferment for compassionate reasons will be considered on a case-by-case basis. (2)  Deferment for medical reasons may be requested when the individuals physical condition will not allow full par-ticipation in the selected course. (3)  Deferment for operational reasons will be considered for Army Civilians selected to a new appointment in the Army within six months of SSC notification. Selection to a position outside the Army will be considered a declination. Requests must be received by HQDA before 31 May of the academic year for consideration. (4)  Students enrolled in the USAWC DEP may be deferred for operational or compassionate reasons from the summer resident courses for exceptional circumstances. However, the student is required to complete both summer resident courses. A student cannot attend both summer resident courses during the same academic year. Requests for deferment will be forwarded through command channels to the DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Director of Training), Civilian Training and Leader Development (DAMO  TRV), 450 Pentagon (Room 2D639), Washington DC 20310  0450, and the Registrar, USAWC, 122 Forbes Avenue, Carlisle, PA 17013. f.  Officers will submit compassionate, medical and operational deferment requests with supporting information through command channels to: (1)  CG, HRC (AHRC  OPL), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40121for RA officers. (2)  Chief, NGB (NGB  ART  I), 111 South George Mason Drive, Arlington, VA 22204  1382 for ARNG officers. (3)  CAR (DACR  PE  P), 2400 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310  2400, for USAR officers. (4)  Students enrolled in the USAWC DEP may be deferred for operational or compassionate reasons from the summer resident courses for exceptional circumstances. However, the student is required to complete both summer resident courses. A student cannot attend both summer resident courses during the same academic year. The approval authority for SSC deferments (RA officers) for LTC/O-5s is the CG of HRC. Request will be sent through officers career branch at HRC with command endorsement. Requests for deferment will be forwarded through command channels and through the Reg-istrar, USAWC, 122 Forbes Ave, Carlisle, PA 17013. (5)  All requests for SSC deferments for O  5(P)s and O6s will be forwarded through HQDA Senior Leader Division to the VCSA for review and/or approval no later than 6-months prior to a currently scheduled movement. Point of contact is Director, Senior Leader Development Office (DACS  SLD) 200 Army Pentagon, Washington DC 20310  0200. (6)  Students enrolled in the USAWC DEP may be deferred for operational or compassionate reasons from the summer resident courses for exceptional circumstances. However, the student is required to complete both summer resident courses. A student cannot attend both summer resident courses during the same academic year. Requests for deferment will be forwarded through command channels and through the registrar, USAWC, 122 Forbes Avenue, Carlisle, PA 17013. (7)  Deferment requests submitted by RA officers selected to attend 10 month resident and 14-week satellite campus ILE opportunities must be signed by the first general officer or equivalent in the officers chain of command, then for-warded through HRC Leader Development Division to the VCSA for approval. (8)  All Judge Advocate requests for deferments will be forwarded through the OTJAG Personnel, Plans, and Training Office for decision by TJAG, who maintains authority over all JAGC assignments as noted in 10 USC 3037(c)(2). 3  18.  Declinations a.  Declinations of PME courses by WOs will not be favorably considered. b.  Declinations from NCOES courses will not be favorably considered for RA Soldiers. (1)  RA Soldiers who decline to attend the SMC as a PCS are subject to the separation policies contained in AR 635  200. (2)  Soldiers who incur a service obligation to attend a NCOES course must reenlist or extend, or decline the service remaining requirement in accordance with AR 601  280. (3)  Soldiers who decline NCOES attendance are subject to the provisions of AR 600  8  19 as it pertains to continued promotion eligibility criteria. (4)  Soldiers who decline attendance to the SMC after selection are ineligible for future consideration. c.  RA officers declining ILE or SSCs will forward statements of declination through their respective career branch to the CG, HRC, except for Judge Advocates where TJAG maintains the authority. The officers will be removed from any future consideration for the course. d.  Army Civilians declining a SSC will forward statements of declination through their chain of command to the HQDA G37/Director of Training, Civilian Training and Leader Development (DAMO  TRV) Army Civilians declining selection will be removed from any future consideration for a SSC. e.  ARNG and USAR declinations will be processed under procedures established by the ASA (M&RA), CNGB and CAR. 3  19.  Officer and noncommissioned officer professional military education backlog definitions Backlog definitions provide the Army a way to see itself and clearly mandate that PME attendance take place in a timely manner throughout the force generation cycle and prior to assuming positions requiring appropriate levels of PME. Clear definitions will enable the personnel system to align and meet the requirements of the OPFOR. a.  Intermediate level education.  The RA backlog will include all AC O4s who do not complete ILE by 3 years time in grade. The RC backlog will include all RC O4s who have not completed ILE by 5 years time in grade. b.  Captains Career Course.  The CCC AC backlog will include all RA O3s who have not completed CCC by 2 years in grade. The RC CCC backlog will include all RC O3s who have not completed CCC by 4 years time in grade. c.  Warrant Officer Advanced Course.  RA Technical Services WOs and all ARNG and USAR WOs are expected to complete WOAC prior to promotion to CW3. All RA Aviation WOs are expected to complete WOAC within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW3.  The WOAC RA backlog will include all RA CW3s who have not completed WOAC. The WOAC RC backlog will include all RC CW2s eligible for promotion and CW3s who have not completed WOAC. d.  Warrant officer  intermediate level education. RA Technical Services WOs and all ARNG and USAR WOs are ex-pected to complete WOILE prior to promotion to CW4. All RA Aviation WOs are expected to complete WOILE within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW4. The WOILE RA backlog will include all RA CW4s who have not completed WOILE. The WOILE RC backlog will include all RC CW3s eligible for promotion and CW4s who have not completed WOILE. e.  Warrant Officer Senior Service Education.  RA Technical Services WOs and all ARNG and USAR WOs are ex-pected to complete WOSSE prior to promotion to CW5. All RA Aviation WOs are expected to complete WOSSE within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW5. The WOSSE RA backlog will include all RA CW5s who have not completed WOSSE. The WOSSE RC backlog will include all RC CW4s eligible for promotion and CW5s who have not completed WOSSE f.  Noncommissioned officer legacy backlog.  Within the guidelines of STEP (Section V) is defined as Soldiers with 37 or more months time in grade who have been promoted without completing/graduating the PME course in NCOES re-quired for their grade level. Soldiers on the legacy backlog are afforded one opportunity to attend their requisite NCO PME course. These soldiers are not otherwise eligible for further promotion consideration unless they meet all of the training requirements for their current rank. Additionally, Soldiers (SSG and above) are subject to potential denial of continued service by the qualitative management program when they fail to qualify themselves in their current rank (ALC for SSG and SLC for SFC). 3  20.  Course credit a.  The DCS, G  3/5/7 delegates authority to approve or disapprove all RA/RC Officers, NCOs and Army Civilian Corps requests for constructive and equivalent credit requests for BOLC, CCC, WOES, CGSOC, nonresident CGSOC, and NCOPDS waivers, and CES Basic, Intermediate, and Advanced Courses to the Director of Training, G  37/TR. This del-egation of authority does not inhibit the DCS, G  3/5/7 from reviewing all decisions. The DCS, G  3/5/7 maintains authority to approve or disapprove all RA/RC Officers and Army Civilian requests for constructive and equivalent credit for SSC/MEL 1. b.  Individuals who meet the applicable course prerequisites and are otherwise eligible to attend a course may qualify for the following types of course credit: (1)  Constructive credit may be granted to individuals in lieu of course attendance based on previous leadership experi-ence and/or past academic/training experiences. In all cases TRADOC or the proponent school will assess the individuals past comprehensive military or Civilian experience against established course Terminal Learning Objectives/Learning Objectives. Individuals must possess the same skills and qualifications as course graduates. (2)  Equivalent credit may be granted to individuals in lieu of course attendance based on courses possessing comparable Terminal Learning Objectives/Learning Objectives. Terminal Learning Objective/outcome assessments are performed by TRADOC or the respective proponent school. Individuals must possess the same skills and qualifications as course grad-uates. (3)  Operational credit may be granted to individuals in lieu of course attendance based on operational experiences. c.  Personnel awarded course credit will be considered for promotion, assignment, or other personnel actions on the same basis as graduates of the course concerned. d.  Military personnel: Requests for credit will be submitted on a fully completed and signed DA Form 4187 (Personnel Action), and include an outline of the individuals prior leadership and technical training and experiences as they relate to the critical terminal learning objective. Include a commanders verification of body composition compliance (DA Form 5500 (Body Fat Content Worksheet (Male)) and DA Form 5501 (Body Fat Content Worksheet (Female))) with the most recent APFT result (DA Form 705 (Army Physical Fitness Test Scorecard)) copies of OER/NCOER or academic evalua-tions reports for the past 3 years, a copy of DA Form 4037 (Officer Record Brief) for officers and enlisted personnel, and any other relevant any other relevant supporting documentation. Submit the request through command channels, their component personnel command, to the DCS, G  3/5/7 (Director of Training). The component personnel commands are listed as follows: (1)  RA and USAR: Commander, HRC for officer and warrant officer and NCOES courses. For Judge Advocate courses send the request to CG, The Judge Advocate Generals Legal Center and School. (2)  ARNG: CNGB/DARNG, for officer, warrant officer, and NCOES courses. e.  Department of the Army Civilians.  They may be granted course credit for the CES Basic, Intermediate, and Ad-vanced Courses as outlined in paragraphs 320e(1) and 320e(2). CES constructive course credit is not granted for the Foundation Course. (1)  CES equivalency credit is linked to the course registration process in Civilian Human Resources Training Applica-tion System (CHRTAS). (a)  CHRTAS will auto determine previous Army Civilian legacy or military leader training from the applicants ATRRS Training History and determine the appropriate level of training the applicant is eligible to attend. (b)  Applicants will be able to submit training documents when training completions are missing from their ATRRS record. (2)  Constructive credit may be granted in lieu of course attendance based on prior leadership experience and/or past academic education and/or training experiences. (a)  Applicants who became an Army Civilian after 30 September 2006 must complete the CES Foundation Course before requesting CES constructive credit. (b)  Supervisors must complete the Supervisor Development course before requesting CES constructive credit. (c)  Active duty personnel or non-DA Civilians are not eligible to receive CES course credit. (d)  Requests are submitted through the CHRTAS website to the proponent school. Final approval authority for all CES course credit requests is DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate). (3)  For more information and instructions on the CES course credit and application process refer to the CHRTAS website https://www.atrrs.army.mil/channels/chrtas. f.  Individuals will be granted credit for successfully completing institutional training conducted either through a training battalion, a proponent resident school, or DL when the conditions, listed below, are met. Course-completion documentation in individuals records will not identify how instruction is presented or learning acquired. The required conditions are: (1)  Instructors are proponent certified; and, (2)  Proponent-developed, proponent-certified, and proponent-approved TATS courseware is used. RC Soldiers will receive credit for successfully completing proponent developed, certified, and approved courses using RC configured courseware until TATS courseware is fielded, or, (3)  Proponent-developed, -certified, and -approved DL courseware is used (when applicable). Reserve Component Sol-diers will receive credit for successfully completing proponent developed, certified, and approved courses in DL modality or a combination of DL and TATS. 3  21.  Operational Credit Program a.  The Operational Credit Program awards full or partial MOS credit to Soldiers for job skills and duties performed outside of their primary MOS. b.  Program overview. (1)  An institutional MOS-transition (reclassification training) course remains the preferred procedure to award a new MOS. However, operational credit provides commanders with another tool to accomplish MOS  T without significant investments in time and other scarce resources. Operational credit is not a program with lower quality standards and course task-condition-standards will not be compromised. (2)  The Operational Credit Program provides the capability to award an additional MOS by participating in a three-phased program. In very rare instances will all MOS training requirements be met in the first two phases. Training in phases 1 and 3 will be based on the MOS  T program of instruction approved by the proponent school and taught by TASS schools. Basic components of the Operational Credit Program will consist of the following phases: (a)  Phase 1. Pre-operation phase.  During this phase, Soldiers receive instruction based on a proponent approved train-ing program. The program provides lessons to accomplish mission specific tasks (but it may not be the complete POI) for MOS qualification) prior to an operational mission or during pre-mobilization. This instruction is taught by proponent qualified instructors that include proponent school instructors, qualified TASS instructors, or instructors who have been certified by the proponent school. Unit commanders at battalion or company level must maintain a record, certified by a qualified instructor for the tasks accomplished by each Soldier. (b)  Phase 2. Operational phase.  During this phase, full or partial credit may be awarded for tasks performed to standard under the appropriate conditions while participating in an operational mission. The first O  6 in the chain of command may approve the documented tasks that have been validated by the subordinate unit commander. The documented tasks from phases 1 and 2 will be provided to the proponent school commandant or TASS functional proponent for task certification of full or partial MOS credit. (c)  Phase 3. Post-operation phase.  After unit redeployment, the proponent school will provide the unit commander a list of all Soldiers in the unit that have received either full or partial MOS credit. If partial credit is awarded based on the first two phases, the proponent school must provide the unit commander feedback on the tasks for each Soldier to complete and receive full MOS credit. The unit commander should devise a training program, taught by certified instructors, in order to complete the final tasks. This training will be conducted within six months after redeployment and receiving feedback by the proponent school. After completion of all tasks, the unit commander (battalion or company level) will submit a list, through the first colonel in the chain of command, to the proponent school or TASS functional proponent of the remaining tasks accomplished by each Soldier and certified by a qualified instructor. c.  Unit commanders will process Operational Credit Program requests through the chain of command to the proponent school or TASS functional proponent for partial or full MOS credit. Requests should be in memorandum format with training records attached. Once endorsed by the chain of command and approved by the proponent school or TASS, the school will notify HRC of the Soldiers full credit for MOS qualification to be annotated to his/her personnel records. d.  TRADOC will: coordinate with TASS functional schools as the Armys lead for training; ensure quality control of implementing and managing the Operational Credit Program; and designate which MOS qualification courses are approved for the Operational Credit Program. For RA units, approve a training program tailored to complete the final tasks if full credit cannot be awarded based on the first two phases. Ensure Soldier meets all the prerequisites before awarding the MOS. e.  USAR TASS will supplement the base guidance in this regulation with implementing instructions. For USAR units: approve a training program tailored to complete the final tasks if full credit cannot be awarded based on the first two phases; ensure Soldier meets all the prerequisites before awarding the MOS; and notify HRC of the Soldiers full credit for MOS qualification to be annotated to his/her personnel records. f.  The ARNG TASS will supplement the base guidance in this regulation with implementing instructions. For ARNG units: approve a training program tailored to complete the final tasks if full credit cannot be awarded based on the first two phases; ensure Soldier meets all the prerequisites before awarding the MOS; and notify HRC of the Soldiers full credit for MOS qualification to be annotated to his/her personnel records. g.  HRC will annotate Soldier records as appropriate based on documentation from TRADOC or TASS functional pro-ponent. 3  22.  Early release and/or early graduation from the Officer Education System and/or noncommissioned Officer Education System courses and schools a.  Early release/early graduation will be considered from the following schools: CCC, Judge Advocate Graduate Course, CGSOC, SAMS, AWC and SMC. Release from other courses not listed above is not authorized. b.  Early release and/or early graduation will only be authorized in support of field commanders and/or operational needs and may be granted on a case-by-case basis during a time of war, intensified operations, or other urgent need. c.  It is the Armys intent that those who are taken from a school, leave with full graduation credit or that a written plan is in place to return the Soldier to training, within the Soldiers career timeline, to achieve graduation credit. This plan should be carried out no later than 12  18 months from the time the Soldier leaves the school. d.  Process for requests: (1)  Requests for Soldiers to miss two weeks or less of a course may be approved by the commandant. The TRADOC and HRC (Leader Development Division), Officer Personnel Management Directorate will inform the DCS, G  3/5/7. Requests are made by the gaining unit commander or by the career manager through the Commander, HRC, Leader De-velopment (Leader Development Division, Officer Personnel Management Directorate), through TRADOC G  3/5/7 (Leader Development Directorate, G  37) to the school commandant. Each request must contain the following: (a)  Justification for the early release/graduation. (b)  A general officer endorsement. (c)  Normal graduation date. (d)  Report date requested. (The Soldier must be allowed no less than 3 weeks from notification of transfer to report date. This is intended to allow no less than 1 week for out processing and 2 weeks to arrive at the new duty station with leave en route.) (e)  Paragraph, line number and brief duty description of slated position. (f)  Date the slated position will become vacant. (2)  Requests for Soldiers to miss more than two weeks of a course may be approved by the DCG, TRADOC with input from HRC (Leader Development Division, Officer Personnel Management Directorate) and other agencies as appropriate, and will inform DCS, G  3/5/7. (a)  Requests are made by the gaining unit commander or by the career manager through the Commander, HRC, Leader Development Division (Leader Development Division, Officer Personnel Management Directorate), through TRADOC G  3/5/7 (Leader Development Directorate, G  37) to the school commandant. (b)  Upon receipt of the request from HRC, HQDA, TRADOC will coordinate with the proponent and/or other agencies as appropriate. The staffing and decision process takes a minimum of 14 days to complete. Each request must contain the following: 1.  Justification for the early release/graduation. 2.  A general officer endorsement. 3.  Normal graduation date. 4.  Report date requested. (The Soldier must be allowed no less than 3 weeks from notification of transfer to report date. This is intended to allow no less than 1 week for out processing and 2 weeks to arrive at the new duty station with leave en route.) 5.  Paragraph, line number and brief duty description of slated position. 6.  Date the slated position will become vacant. e.  Requests must be received 45 days prior to requested report date to ensure proper staffing and adequate time for notification of the officer. f.  Under some circumstances, Soldiers who are released early may be required to return to the course to complete the educational program. Upon determination by the CG, TRADOC, HRC will receive notification of the requirement to re-instate the officer for the course. If required, the student will restart the course at the point they were ordered to leave. g.  Report date may be adjusted by HRC based on input from the college / school with regard to educational considera-tions. h.  Release authority for the Judge Advocate Graduate Course is the Commander, The Judge Advocate Generals Legal Center and School. 3  23.  Education and training evaluation Army training and education evaluation applies to courses, products, and institutions. Evaluations provide the means for identifying performance deficiencies and efficiencies. Army learning institutions must routinely conduct evaluations to improve how they train and educate Soldiers and Army Civilians through the systematic collection, analysis, and applica-tion of feedback concerning the relevance and effectiveness of education/training. To achieve this, the Army learning institutions must: a.  Incorporate the feedback generated by the internal and external evaluations conducted in coordination with the QAO/QAE. b.  Employ quality control actions to ensure the quality of the education/training products and materials. c.  Provide each graduate of a course the opportunity to complete an End-of Course Critique prior to graduation to solicit feedback that may help improve the presentation of the learning material. This requirement includes both DL and resident phases of a course. d.  Apply the evaluation results to improve the quality of the education/training provided as appropriate. 3  24.  Student education and training records a.  Individual-student training records will be maintained by the school for at least 12 months after the completion of training (24 months for Soldiers dismissed from a course). These records will include: (1)  Student observation reports. (2)  Counseling records. (3)  Leadership position evaluations. (4)  APFT results. (5)  Other student performance evaluations. (6)  Service School Academic Evaluation Report (DA Form 1059). b.  No entry will be made on student training and personnel records that indicate the course was taken in residence or by DL. 3  25.  Documentation of course/training completion All course completion documentation will be completed in ATRRS (in accordance with AR 350  10) and the ATMS indi-vidual training record (ITR) (in accordance with AR 350  1). Documentation of course/training completion, other than for pre-commissioning training where AR 145  1 prescribes policy, will be governed as follows: a.  Diplomas or certificates of completion will be issued to all students upon successful completion of courses. The issuance of diplomas to ROTC cadets is governed by policies of the respective colleges and universities. (1)  Diplomas and certificates will include the students full name, grade, and complete course or phase title. (2)  Diplomas and certificates issued will not reflect nonresident, Reserve Component, or other similar remarks, to preclude resident courses or courses taught at RA schools from being recognized more favorably than other courses. (3)  Certificates of equivalent knowledge may be issued, at the discretion of the appropriate school commandant or commander, when the required level of knowledge has been demonstrated based on tests or other appropriate means. (4)  No certificate will be issued for individuals failing to achieve course completion requirements. (5)  Diplomas or certificates may be awarded to military and civilian students of other nations receiving training in accordance with AR 12  15. (6)  No diploma or certificate of completion will be issued for individuals receiving constructive, equivalent, or opera-tional credit for coursed listed in paragraph 320a .  b.  For MEDCOM functional and NCOES courses, the regions will report graduation data in accordance with the time-lines established in ATRRS policies and regulations c.  Schools conducting AIT, OSUT, or occupational reclassification training will certify those IMT tasks successfully completed by the student using the Gradebook in DTMS-Course Manager. d.  All individual unit and collective training in units and TRADOC and non-TRADOC institutional schools will be documented in individual training records (ITRs) using DTMS.  Further details on maintaining training records are found in appendix F. e.  Unit training by Civilian personnel will be maintained in training records using DTMS and documentation must also be entered in Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS). f.  Course certificates of completion are not awarded to individuals who are granted CES course credit. g.  Course credit and retirement points, as established by AR 140  1 and AR 140  185, will be awarded to RC personnel for successful course completion. h.  The American Council on Education evaluates resident and nonresident service school courses in terms of academic credit. Soldiers and Army Civilians seeking academic recognition for service school courses will furnish documents spec-ified in the American Council on Education guide to the civilian school from which they want credit in accordance with AR 621  5. AR 621  5 also requires that eligible Soldiers receive transcripts documenting their military training and expe-rience, along with the recommended college credit, in accordance with the Army/American Council on Education Registry Transcript System. Army Education Center personnel will assist Soldiers in obtaining documentation for non-traditional learning from civilian schools. Civilian schools determine American Council on Education credit recommendations and the number of hours to be credited. 3  26.  Academic evaluation report a.  Army students completing leader training, education, and development courses will be evaluated in accordance with AR 623  3, using the appropriate academic evaluation report form for Service school, DA Form 1059 (Service School Academic Evaluation Report), or civilian institution, DA Form 1059  1 (Civilian Institution Academic Evaluation Report). (1)  The academic evaluation report provides a qualitative and quantitative assessment of students abilities. Therefore, input is required from all instructors and evaluators who have had professional contact with the student. (2)  Entries will reflect the students performance and potential for absorbing higher levels of training, education, and development and performing more complex duties with greater responsibilities. School commandants and commanders will ensure the objectivity and accuracy of academic evaluation report ratings and supporting comments. Standard com-puter generated entries are not authorized. Comments on DA Form 1059s will match those found on the Soldiers DA Form 4856 (Developmental Counseling Form) as maintained by the school. (3)  Graduates will be provided a copy of their academic evaluation report. b.  Military students of other nations will be evaluated in accordance with AR 12  15. c.  Army Civilian students completing leader training, education and development courses will be evaluated by each institution. Evaluations will be documented in the DCPDS, individuals official record, in accordance with performance plan objectives during the rating period that the training occurred. Section III Initial Military Training 3  27.  Initial military training IMT provides an orderly transition from civilian to military life. Initial Military Training sets standards for and oversees training in the competencies (knowledge, skills, abilities, attributes) and behaviors of civilian volunteers in order for them to become Soldiers who are physically ready, grounded in Army Values, and competent in their skills so they are able to contribute as leaders or members of a team upon arrival at their first unit of assignment. Initial Military Training includes developing baseline proficiency of common core tasks, Warrior Tasks and Battle Drills (WTBDs), High Physical Demand Tasks, and critical skills associated with their military occupational specialty (MOS) or officer basic branch. a.  In accordance with 10 USC 671, a Soldier may not be assigned to active duty on land outside the United States and its territories and possessions until the Soldier has completed IMT within the Army. In time of war or a national emergency declared by Congress or the President, the period of required IMT may not be less than 12 weeks. This mandated time period does not apply to Soldiers who have been credentialed in a medical profession or occupation and are serving in a health-care occupational specialty. b.  Army Competitive Category Officer and Warrant Officer IMT consists of BOLC Phases A and B. For aviators: (1)  IMT includes BOLC B plus either Initial Entry Rotary Wing or Initial Entry Fixed Wing, depending on the officers career path. (2)  WOs who attended the Aviation WOBC and converted to officer grade are not required to attend the Aviation Basic Officer Leader Course. Warrant officers converting to officer grade must have completed the Aviation WOBC within six years of conversion date to qualify for credit under this equivalency rule. (3)  Conversely, officers who attended the Aviation BOLC and converted to warrant officer are not required to attend the Aviation WOBC. c.  Specialty branch officers--- (1)  Army Medical Department.  All AMEDD officers will attend the AMEDD Officer Basic Course which is BOLC  B for the AMEDD. AMEDD RC officers will attend the AMEDD RC BOLC  B and will integrate with the AMEDD RA BOLC  B during their FTX phase. Attendance at the AMEDD RC BOLC  B will occur after completion of the AMEDD RC BOLC  B Phase 1 DL. (a)  AMEDD Direct Commissioned Officers are officers without ROTC, OCS, USMA, NGB OCS or WOCS experience to include officers with enlisted Basic Combat Training, and officers with pre-commissioning training from sister services (USAF, USN, etc.). (b)  Effective 1 October 2017, all direct commissioned AMEDD officers assessed into the U.S. Army will attend the AMEDD Direct Commissioned Course (DCC) conducted at Fort Sill, OK.  All AMEDD direct commissioned officers must attend the AMEDD DCC prior to attendance of BOLC  B. (c)  AMEDD direct commissioned officers assessed into the U.S. Army prior to 30 September 2017 will only be required to attend BOLC  B and will be grandfathered for the AMEDD DCC requirement. (d)  All AMEDD direct commissioned officers of all components will attend the four week AMEDD DCC. The only exception are ARNG and USAR Medical Corps, Dental corps, and Veterinarian corps officers who will attend the three week AMEDD DCC. (e)  The waiver / exception to policy approval authority for AMEDD DCC attendance is the HQDA G  3/5/7.  This authority may be further delegated to the appropriate directorate or division overseeing officer training. (2)  Judge Advocate Generals Corps.  Unless TJAG waives the requirement, all Judge Advocates, regardless of com-ponent, will attend JAGC Officer Basic Course, which is BOLC B for the JAGC. RA and RC officers in the JAGC partic-ipate in the BOLC Direct Commission Course (BOLC  DCC) and BOLC A unless waived by TJAG in accordance with paragraph 2  16. The BOLC  DCC is primarily designed to provide direct commission JAGC officers with the leadership and tactical skill set acquired by officers attending BOLC A or who have prior military service, to ensure their successful completion of BOLC B. RA and RC ROTC Education Delay JAGC officers will attend BOLC  DCC. TJAG has final disposition authority of Judge Advocates including recycling and separating. In accordance with 10 USC 3037(c)(2) TJAG manages JAGC personnel. (3)  Chaplain corps.  Chaplains are noncombatants, do not exercise command authority and normally serve their first assignments on Battalion staffs. Consequently, the education and training philosophy, strategy, and outcomes for chaplains differ significantly from that of other officers. The initial training program for chaplains and chaplain candidates provides initial military, officer and chaplaincy-unique religious leader development (training and education) for chaplains and chaplain candidates. It consists of the following courses in progression: four weeks of Chaplain IMT followed by 9 weeks of Chaplain BOLC. Chaplain BOLC is phased for ARNG and USAR attendance. Completion of these two courses is required for chaplain basic branch qualification. d.  Enlisted IMT is called initial entry training (IET), consisting of Basic Combat Training and AIT, or OSUT, and any other formal Army training received prior to the awarding of an initial MOS. Graduates of AIT or OSUT will meet the standards of AR 40  501, AR 600  9, AR 611  1, and doctrine in FM 7  22. TRADOC will establish IET graduation re-quirements. e.  IET training-seat prioritization: (1)  Priority of training seats for Basic Combat Training and OSUT for Soldiers in the training base who are waiting to enter training (hold-unders) is in the following order: (a)  Critical fill for RA and RC deploying units. (b)  Split Training Option, Phase 1. (c)  Hard-Start MOS (defined as class starts of one each month or less). (d)  Fitness Training Unit graduates. (e)  HQDA-designated critical MOS fill. (f)  Hold-unders (RC then RA) and recycles (RC then RA). A hold-under Soldier has priority over a recycle Soldier if the hold-under has been in the training base longer than the recycle. A recycle has priority over a hold-under if the recycle has been in the training base longer than the hold-under. 1.  RC trainees. 2.  RA trainees. (2)  Priority of training seats for AIT for Soldiers in the training base who are waiting to enter training (hold-unders) is in the following order: (a)  Critical fill for RA and RC deploying units. (b)  RA reclassification. (c)  The RC Split Training Option, Phase 2; however, if the Split Training Option, Phase 2 Soldier is in jeopardy of missing their 24-month mandatory deadline to achieve the duty military occupational specialty qualification, the Split Training Option, Phase 2 Soldier has priority over RA reclassification. (d)  Hold-unders (RC then RA) and recycles (RC then RA). A hold-under Soldier has priority over a recycle Soldier if the hold under has been in the training base longer than the recycle. A recycle has priority over a hold under if the recycle has been in the training base longer than the hold-under. 1.  RC trainees. 2.  RA trainees. 3.  Prior service (RC then RA). (3)  In addition to the priorities established above, component personnel managers will assist in reducing the potential for backlog conditions when prioritizing seat requests. This is particularly critical for prior service trainees. Allocating seats to prior service trainees for units outside their ready or available cycles before more critical training requirements are met exacerbates constrained conditions at TRADOC schools without producing a readiness benefit. RC liaison teams at TRADOC centers and schools play a central role in coordinating reservations and seats between personnel commands and TRADOC schools and centers to ensure optimum use of training. 3  28.  Initial entry training for prior Service (enlisted personnel only) a.  Prior Service Basic Combat Training (PSBCT) is the primary course for prior service personnel. Attendance to BCT will be used only if PSBCT is removed from ATRRS. The following guidance applies to prior service personnel attending initial entry training: (1)  Prior service personnel entering the Army are not required to attend Prior Service Basic Combat Training (as avail-able in ATRRS) or Basic Combat Training if they: (a)  Completed Army or USMC basic training, or (b)  Completed training for U.S. Air Force (USAF) or USN Special Operations Forces, or USAF Security Police, and (c)  Have less than a 3-year break in service. (2)  If Prior Service Basic Combat Training (PSBCT) (as available in ATRRS) or Basic Combat Training (BCT) is required, prior service personnel entering the Regular Army will attend MOS qualification training or obtain equivalent credit for MOS qualification training before their first unit of assignment. (3)  Prior service personnel from the USAF, USN, and U.S. Coast Guard entering the Army will attend PSBCT (as available in ATRRS) or BCT regardless of the length of their break in service if they: (a)  Have not completed Army or USMC basic training, or (b)  Did not complete training for USAF or USN Special Operations Forces, or USAF Security Police. (c)  (Regular Army Only) And will attend MOS qualification training or obtain equivalent credit for MOS qualification training before their first unit of assignment. b.  To meet the 12-week basic training requirement of 10 USC 671 before an overseas assignment, Commander TRADOC or Director Army National Guard will ensure all prior service recruits attend a follow-on military occupational specialty (MOS) qualification course six weeks or more in length. Prior service personnel may be awarded up to six weeks of equivalent or constructive credit for basic training based on training received or time served from previous service. Requests must be submitted pursuant to AR 350  1, paragraph 320b. This 12-week requirement will be met for prior service applicants enlisting in the Reserve Component, who complete PSBCT (as available in ATRRS) or BCT and are required to attend additional training because their specialty does not convert to an Army MOS. c.  Definitions (1)  Break in service is defined as the last period of service, including the IRR, regardless of component. For Soldiers who separate, break in service starts after completion of the military service obligation or when a Soldier (regardless of service) is no longer a member of a RC (including the IRR). (2)  PSBCT (as available in ATRRS) and BCT requirements are defined in ATRRS. (3)  Separation for Prior Service Personnel. Entry level separation procedures in AR 635  200 apply to non-prior service and prior service personnel. Section IV Officer Training and Education 3  29.  The Officer Education System a.  The goal of the OES is to produce leaders who are fully competent in technical, tactical, and leadership skills, knowledge, and experience; are knowledgeable of how the Army runs; are prepared to operate in unified action environ-ments; demonstrate confidence, integrity, critical judgment, and responsibility; can operate in an environment of complex-ity, ambiguity, and rapid change; can build effective teams amid organizational and technological change; and can adapt to and solve problems creatively. The OES also produces warrant officers who are highly specialized experts, trainers, and leaders who are fully competent in technical, tactical, and leadership skills; creative problem solvers able to function in highly complex and dynamic environments; proficient operators, maintainers, administrators, and managers of Army equipment, support activities, and technical systems. b.  OES is a sequence of PME opportunities for professionals in subjects that enhance knowledge of the science and art of war. PME provides progressive education that prepares leaders for increased responsibilities and successful performance at the next higher level by developing the key knowledge, skills, and attributes they require to operate successfully at that level in any environment. PME is linked to promotions, future assignments, career management models, and applies to all officers. c.  The OES prepares Officers and WOs for increased responsibilities and successful performance at the next higher level. It provides pre-commissioning, branch, functional area, and leader-development training that prepares officers to lead platoon, company, battalion, and higher level organizations. It also produces technically and tactically competent commissioned and warrant officer leaders for assignment to platoon, detachment, company, battalion, and higher-level organizations. d.  The OES consists of branch-immaterial and branch-specific courses that provide progressive and sequential training throughout an officers career. Regardless of branch affiliation, functional area, or specialty, the common thread, which ties all OES courses together, is common-core training. Common-core training is approved by TRADOC and incorporated into OES courses. e.  The OES includes: (1)  BOLC A is pre-commissioning/pre-appointment training to qualify individuals to serve as officers (OGrade and WGrade). (2)  BOLC B is officer initial entry and branch qualification training. (3)  The WOAC to provide advanced branch-specific technical training and staff skills. (4)  The CCC to provide advanced branch-specific and branch-immaterial staff process training. (5)  The WOILE to provide intermediate branch technical/functional training and common leader and staff skills. (6)  ILE provides advanced branch, functional area, and branch-immaterial command and staff training. (7)  The WOSSE to provide senior warrant officer level professional leader development education and training. (8)  The CSA Senior Army Fellows, SSCs, or USAWC Fellowships to provide senior-level professional leader devel-opment education and training. (9)  General officer education and training described in paragraph 3  50. (10)  Advanced civil schooling in appropriate disciplines and areas of concentration. f.  The Army OES complies with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staffs (CJCS) officer professional military edu-cation policy, CJCSI 1800.01E. The CJCS advises and assists the Secretary of Defense in JPME matters, including the Joint curricula at Service schools. Intermediate and senior staff college Army institutions are accredited by the Chairman, JPME programs. Graduates meet the requirements for JPME. g.  The CJCSI 1800.01E defines CJCS objectives and policies regarding the Army educational institutions that comprise the officer PME and JPME systems. CJCSI 1800.01E also identifies the fundamental responsibilities of the major military educational participants in achieving those objectives. The Army provides officer PME and JPME to eligible armed forces officers, international officers, eligible federal government Civilians and other approved students. The Army operates its officer PME system primarily to develop officers with expertise and knowledge appropriate to their grade, branch and occupational specialty. Incorporated throughout PME, officers receive JPME from pre-commissioning through gen-eral/flag officer rank. h.  JPME is a CJCS-approved body of objectives, outcomes, policies, procedures and standards supporting the educa-tional requirements for Joint officer management. JPME is imbedded in Army programs of instruction and in concert with PME produces desired outcomes in support of the Joint Officer Management System. JPME is a three- phase Joint educa-tion program taught in the Army Command and General Staff College (Fort Leavenworth), the USAWC, at other Service intermediate- or senior-level colleges, the Joint Forces Staff College, and at the National Defense University for the CAPSTONE course. i.  The Army operates the officer PME system primarily to develop officers with expertise and knowledge appropriate to their grade, branch and occupational specialty. Embedded within the PME system, however, is a program of JPME overseen by the Joint Staff and designed to fulfill the educational requirements for Joint officer management. Incorporated throughout Army PME, officers receive JPME from pre-commissioning through general/flag officer. Army PME is struc-tured in five military educational levels to support five significant phases in an officers career. (1)  Precommissioning and/or pre-appointment.  Military education received at institutions and through programs pro-ducing commissioned officers and warrant officers in the grade of WO1 upon graduation. (2)  Primary.  Education typically received at grades WO1 through CW2 and O  1 through O  3. (3)  Intermediate.  Education typically received at grades CW3 and O  4. (4)  Senior.  Education typically received at grades CW4, O  5 or O  6. (5)  General/Flag Officer.  Education and training received as a general/flag officer is administered by the Army Stra-tegic Education Program (ASEP) under the authorities delegated to the CSA by 10 USC. The CG, TRADOC provides command oversight and direction of Commandant, USAWC to ensure execution of ASEP in accordance with the directives and guidance provided by the CSA. Commandant, USAWC, serves as lead agent for the CSA to implement manage, and supervise the ASEP for general officers described in paragraph 3-50. The ASEP learning plan comprises 4 mandatory core courses (basic, advance, senior, transition) every general officer attends based on specified promotion and/or appointments aligned with each course. The ASEP System develops general officers with expertise and knowledge appropriate to the grade to which they are ascend and when appropriate in accordance with the requirements of the duty and/or occupational specialty to which they are assigned. These requirements can include regulatory required PME. Embedded within the ASEP system, however, is the general officer JPME overseen by the Joint Staff and designed to fulfill the educational requirements appropriate to the corresponding general/flag officer rank CAPSTONE is the sole regulatory required JPME course for all general/flag officers. 3  30.  Warrant officer education requirements a.  The educational goal for WOs is a branch specialty-related associate degree, or its equivalent, before entry into career status for RA WOs, and prior to completing 8 years of WO service for RC personnel. WOs are encouraged to obtain baccalaureate degrees prior to promotion to CW4 and to obtain advanced degrees to further enhance their qualifications and abilities. b.  It is critical that warrant officers complete their requisite PME within established timelines to ensure that they are fully prepared for the demands of their highly specialized roles. Warrant officers who do not possess the PME for their grade level are prohibited from serving in the following assignments and roles: (1)  Command at any level. (2)  PME instructor. (3)  HQDA centralized selection boards (including all warrant officer accession boards, U. S. Army Recruiting Com-mand selection boards and special branch-level boards). (4)  HQDA principal staff offices. (5)  Chief warrant officer of the branch, regimental chief warrant officer, command chief warrant officer or key Army 011A billets. Brigade-level command chief warrant officers will attend Phase III only. (6)  Army Senior Warrant Officer Council. (7)  U.S. Army Human Resources Command (AHRC) career manager (8)  Broadening assignments (including all senior warrant officer 011A (branch / military occupational specialty imma-terial) and joint, interagency, intergovernmental and multinational positions). c.  The MEDCOM requirements are determined by the MEDCOM Commanders Requirements Review Process. d.  The education policy for ARNG WOs is defined in ARNG regulations. e.  Education requirements for criminal investigation WO special agents (specialty 311) are addressed in AR 195  3. 3  31.  Officer education requirements a.  All officers must have a baccalaureate degree prior to commissioning. All OCS candidates must possess a baccalau-reate degree or higher degree from an accredited college or university in order to attend OCS for the purpose of earning a commission as a Regular Army or RC officer. Soldiers without a baccalaureate degree, but with 90 or more credit hours, are not eligible to attend OCS. The DCS, G  1, or designee, may approve waivers for OCS attendance and appointments into the Regular Army for Soldiers without a four-year degree, but with at least 90 non-duplicative credit hours towards a degree from an accredited college or university. See AR 350  51 and AR 601  100 for additional information. b.  Officers are encouraged to earn a graduate degree. Requirements exist for officers with graduate degrees as deter-mined by ACOMs and Army personnel proponents, and use the Academic Evaluation Reporting System or the MEDCOM Commanders Requirements Review Process. If officers with appropriate degrees are not available to fill these require-ments, qualified officers may receive Army-funded, post-graduate education to fill requirements in (1)  A discipline that supports the officers designated branch or functional area, or supports universal officer proficien-cies. (2)  A discipline determined to be required by the MEDCOM Commanders Requirements Review Process. 3  32.  Precommissioning and/or pre-appointment programs a.  Pre-commissioning and pre-appointment programs educate and train cadets, officer candidates, and warrant officer candidates, assess their readiness and potential for commissioning as second lieutenants or appointment as WO1s, and prepare them for progressive and continuing development. Precommissioning/pre-appointment sources share a common goal that each graduate possess the character, leadership, integrity, and other attributes essential to a career of exemplary service to the nation. Responsibilities for the administration and coordination of programs leading to the commissioning of officers in the Army and ARNG are established in chapter 2. These programs are as follows: b.  BOLC Phase A. (1)  WOCS. The WOCS is a branch-immaterial course that prepares enlisted Soldiers to serve as a WO1 in the RA, ARNG, and USAR. WOCS incorporates a high stress environment designed to challenge the warrant officer candidate from day one. Candidates attend training at the USAWOCC, Fort Rucker, AL. ARNG and USAR candidates who are eligible may alternatively attend WOCS at a State Regional Training Institute. (a)  WOCS is conducted as both a 5-week and 7-week course. Soldiers who have completed the BLC, the Advance Leaders Course (ALC) or the Senior Leaders Course (SLC) will attend the 5 week course. All others will attend the 7 week course. (b)  The WOCS POI is approved and maintained by the Commandant, USAWOCC; standards are the same at all loca-tions, with all Training, Advising, and Counseling Officers trained and certified by USAWOCC. (c)  Should they wish to return to WOCS, Candidates dismissed from the course for academic failure, misconduct, or failure to comply with the USAWOCCs published ethical standards must reapply for WOCS selection not earlier than one year after dismissal. (2)  The USMA provides a 4-year curriculum leading to a Bachelor of Science degree and commissioning as a second lieutenant. Selection for attendance is through various appointment programs. Policy guidance is contained in AR 351  17. (3)  The ROTC program offers college students an opportunity for commissioning as second lieutenants through 2-year, 3-year, and 4-year curricula leading to a baccalaureate-level degree. Policy guidance is contained in AR 145  1. (4)  The OCS is a branch-immaterial course that provides WOs and enlisted Soldiers an opportunity to earn commissions as second lieutenants in the RA, ARNG and/or ARNGUS, and USAR. Training takes place in a physically and mentally demanding, high-stress environment. RA OCS is conducted by the USAIS at Fort Benning, GA. The ARNG State OCS is conducted by the OCS battalion of ARNG and/or ARNGUS leadership brigades and/or regiments. The OCS also provides a rapid expansion capability for officer training upon mobilization. The Commandant, USAIS, in coordination with the DARNG, will maintain the OCS POI. (a)  Policy guidance for the OCS is contained in AR 350  51. (b)  Policy guidance for ARNG and/or ARNG State OCS is contained in ARNG Regulations. 3  33.  Basic Officer Leadership Course phases A (precommissioning) and B (Branch) a.  Basic Officer Leadership Course provides pre-commissioning and initial military training for junior commissioned and warrant officers in both the Regular Army and Reserve Components.  BOLC training is sequential and progressive with each training event building upon previous lessons learned and training outcomes. When tasks are repeated, they are performed under conditions which require increased levels of difficulty and tempered with the benefit of operational ex-periences. All junior officers progress through pre-commission and branch schools in sequence. This sequential progres-sion through BOLC ultimately creates officers who are grounded in the leadership competencies, self-confidence, field craft, and technical skills, regardless of branch. Every officer embodies the Army values and warrior ethos, and are phys-ically and mentally strong; arriving at their future units of assignment prepared to lead Soldiers in support of unified land operations. b.  Basic Officer Leadership Course A (pre-commissioning and/or pre-appointment).  Provides IMT and education to potential commissioned Army officers and WOs which consists of foundational Army values, professional and personal attributes, and fundamental technical/tactical skills. BOLC A commissioning/appointment sources are the ROTC, OCS, USMA, NGB OCS, WOCS, and includes the comparative training of the Direct Commission Course. Mission statements for each commissioning and/or appointment source follows: (1)  Reserve Officers Training Corps.  Partner with universities to recruit, educate, develop, and inspire SROTC Cadets in order to commission officers of character for the Total Army. (2)  U.S. Military Academy.  Educate, train, and inspire the Corps of Cadets so that each graduate is a commissioned leader of character committed to the values of Duty, Honor, Country, and prepared for a career of professional excellence and service to the Nation as an officer in the U.S. Army. (3)  Officer Candidate School.  Train, educate, and commission officers in order to provide the Army with leaders of character who live by the Warrior Ethos and Army values. (4)  National Guard Bureau Officer Candidate School.  Train, educate, and commission officers in order to provide the Army with leaders of character who live by the Warrior Ethos and Army values. (5)  Warrant Officer Candidate School.  Train, develop, and appoint warrant officers with the leadership skills necessary to meet future Army challenges. (6)  Direct Commission Course.  Train direct commissioned officers on fundamental skills, establishing a foundation in leadership, physical readiness, mental toughness, and tactical and technical proficiency. c.  BOLC B/WOBC (branch specific technical training schools).  Provides newly commissioned/appointed Army offic-ers and warrant officers with progressive and sequential training at branch schools, to produce adaptive officers, steeped in the profession of arms and who are technically/tactically competent, confident, and capable of leading in unified land operations upon their arrival at their first unit of assignment. BOLC B IMT consists of common military skills and branch-specific qualification courses (including the Initial Entry Rotary Wing Qualification Course and the Initial Entry Fixed Wing Course) that provide newly commissioned officers an opportunity to develop their leadership, tactical, and technical tasks and supporting skills and knowledge required to lead in their future unit of assignment. d.  General.  The BOLC B trains newly commissioned/appointed lieutenants and WOs to: (1)  Prepare, lead, manage and train platoons, squads, teams, and prepare their units equipment for operational missions. (2)  Control, lead, supervise, discipline, train, and develop subordinate leaders. (3)  Care for subordinate leaders, Soldiers, and their Families. (4)  Plan, schedule, supervise, execute, assess, and assign responsibility for mission training. (5)  Plan, initiate, supervise, and assign responsibility for platoon-level personnel, administrative, and supply actions. (6)  Plan, supervise, assess, and assign responsibility for the safe use, maintenance, security, storage, and accountability of personal equipment and organizational equipment and materiel. (7)  Advise the commander on the status of platoon and squad training, discipline, equipment maintenance, and person-nel readiness. e.  Basic Officer Leadership Course B.  This is IMT that prepares a lieutenant for their first assignment and must be completed after commissioning as soon as possible. Requests for waivers will include a request for course credit per pro-cedures explained in paragraph 3  20 of this regulation. RC officers must complete BOLC B within 42 months supports 10 USC 14503 (see AR 135  155): Discharge of officers with less than six years of commissioned service or found not qualified for promotion to first lieutenant or lieutenant junior grade.  f.  Basic Officer Leadership Course B (Branch-Specific Training).  Conducted at the proponent schools, officers will receive common core and technical training (specialized skills, doctrine, tactics, and techniques) associated with their specific branch specialties. Upon graduation, officers may attend additional assignment-oriented training (Airborne, Ranger, and/or Language School) or will proceed to their first unit assignment. Assignment-oriented training or follow-on functional training in conjunction with IMT is authorized in accordance with the unit MTOE (ASI, SQI, and/or SI) or other HQDA, DOD, or Joint requirements documentation. Regular Army officers who volunteer for functional courses in the absence of a requirements authorization must obtain resourcing support from their first unit of assignment if attendance is in a TDY status. Because WOs are selected to attend BOLC B/WOBC at the same time they are selected to attend BOLC A/WOCS, failure to successfully complete BOLC B/WOBC may result in termination of the WO appointment (see AR 600  8  24). g.  Graduates will be identified by award of MEL 7. 3  34.  Mid-grade learning continuum Mid-Grade Level Education, commonly referred to as the Mid-Grade Learning Continuum (MLC) is designed to provide continuing education for mid-grade officers  1LT through CPT(P), and WO1 through CW2(P)  designed to develop leaders who are critical and creative thinkers, and sufficiently agile and adaptive to address complex problems now and in the future. This is achieved through standardized common core curriculum and branch specific instruction. Current courses within the MLC are the CCC and WOAC. 3  35.  Warrant Officer Advanced Course The WOAC consists of common core and branch-specific training that builds upon the skills, knowledge, and experience developed through previous training and assignments. This course prepares chief warrant officers in the grade of CW3 with the leader, tactical, and technical training needed to serve in company and higher level positions. The primary focus is directed toward leadership skill reinforcement, staff skills, and advanced branch- specific training. The Center for Teach-ing and Learning Excellence (CTLE), Army University, has staff management of the WOAC common core, monitors compliance with common core training guidance and validates its training by branch schools. The WOAC consists of two components: non-resident and resident. a.  The nonresident phase (DL) is mandatory and must be completed within 1 year of enrollment and prior to attending branch and/or proponent WOAC training. b.  A resident course consisting of branch proponent developed and administered branch-specific technical training and branch-immaterial training that includes leadership, ethics, communication skills, military law, and personnel manage-ment. c.  RA Technical Services WOs, all ARNG, and all USAR WOs are eligible to attend WOAC after promotion to CW2 and when meeting all branch specific prerequisites in accordance with DA Pam 600  3. RA Aviation WOs are eligible to attend WOAC after selection for promotion to CW3 and after meeting all branch specific pre-requisites. WOs will attend the WOAC of their assigned branch, but under special circumstances may attend another WOAC with an approved excep-tion to policy from their branch and DCS, G  3/5/7 (DAMO  TR). d.  WOAC Completion timelines. RA Technical Services WOs, all ARNG WOs, and all USAR WOs are expected to complete WOAC prior to promotion to CW3. RA Aviation WOs are expected to complete WOAC within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW3. e.  Graduates will be identified by award of MEL 6. 3  36.  Captains career courses Provides O3s with the tactical, technical and leader knowledge and skills needed to lead company-size units and serve on battalion and brigade staffs. The course emphasizes the development of leader competencies while integrating recent op-erational experiences of the students with quality institutional training. It facilitates life-long learning through an emphasis on self-development. The curriculum includes common core subjects, branch-specific tactical and technical instruction, and branch-immaterial staff officer training. a.  RA officer CCC attendance is an assignment action by HRC. RC CCC attendance is scheduled by the unit in ATRRS available at https://atrrs.army.mil. All resident CCC attendance is in a PCS status with the exception of the MEDCOM which is attended in a TDY status. b.  The RC CCC provides the same educational outcomes as the CCC (RA) in roughly the same amount of time as the former RC Officer Advanced Course and RC Combined Arms and Services Staff School. The RC CCC now follows a 13-month model which includes two 15-day resident periods, and 11 months for completing branch specific DL phases. Branches may include a technical prerequisite DL phase prior to the first resident phase. Officers have the flexibility to complete the DL at home station. c.  RA and AGR officers normally will attend their branch-specific CCC in residence: (1)  As soon as practical after promotion to O  3. (2)  As soon as possible after completing 4 years of active Federal commissioned service. (3)  Prior to the 7th year of Federal commissioned service. d.  The RC officers may enroll in the RC CCC upon completion of BOLC and promotion to O  2. Those who desire to enroll prior to this time require a waiver by the unit commander, or by the Commander, HRC for members of the IRR. The RC officers must enroll in the CCC prior to completing 8 years of commissioned service. The RC officers must satisfy the following prerequisites for enrollment into the CCC: (1)  Be a commissioned officer in the grade of O  2 or O  3. (2)  Meet the standards of AR 140  1, AR 600  9, and this regulation. e.  Course Credit. (1)  Army officers and officers assessed from other Services who are graduates of the USMC Expeditionary Warfare School receive constructive credit for O  3 level PME. (2)  O3s and O4s assessed into the Army as functional area officers from other Services receive constructive credit for O  3 level PME. (3)  O3s assessed into the Army from other Services who are not graduates of the USMC Expeditionary Warfare School must complete a branch-appropriate Army CCC to receive credit for O  3 level PME. 3  37.  Intermediate level education ILE prepares field grade officers and field grade warrant officers for leadership, staff and technical roles at the battalion level and higher. A standardized common core is followed by branch or functional area credentialing, area of concentration (AOC) or technical follow-on phase. ILE courses include the Army CGSC and WOILE. The Army Command and General Staff College program consists of the CGSOC, CGSOC satellite, and CGSOC non-resident. 3  38.  Warrant Officer Intermediate Level Education The WOILE is a branch-immaterial DL and resident course conducted by the USAWOCC, Fort Rucker, AL. The USAWOCC develops the POI and serves as the course proponent. The course focuses on the intermediate level staff officer and leadership skills needed to serve in CW4 positions at battalion and higher levels. Instruction includes decision-making, staff training built upon the military decision making process, organizational theory, systems integration, management, operational and tactical awareness, and team building skills. a.  WOILE is attended by ARNG and USAR CW3s, RA Technical Services CW3s, and RA Aviation Branch CW3(P) and CW4s who are WOAC graduates. WOs must have a minimum of 12 months between completion of WOAC and start of WOILE Phase II. b.  When specified by their respective branch, WOs are required to attend additional branch specific ILE phases. WOs will complete WOILE phases in the order prescribed by their branch. Branch specific ILE phases ensure intermediate level WOs receive the latest technical/functional PME within their career field. (1)  Each resident phase will issue a DA Form 1059. (2)  Officers will not be awarded MEL Q until all phases are complete. c.  WOILE Completion timelines. RA Technical Services WOs and all ARNG and USAR WOs are expected to complete WOILE prior to promotion to CW4. RA Aviation WOs are expected to complete WOILE within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW4. d.  Intermediate level education 10 month resident, nonresident or common core satellite campus graduates will receive WOILE equivalent credit. e.  Naval Post-Graduate School (NPS) graduates will receive WOILE equivalent credit. f.  WOILE graduates will be identified by award of MEL Q. 3  39.  The Army Command and General Staff College a.  The Army CGSC Program of PME instruction is ILE.  ILE educates and trains leaders to conduct Decisive Actions in a unified action environment; and advances the art and science of the profession of arms to support the operational requirements of the Army. The CGSOC consists of a common core curriculum that includes JPME Phase 1 requirements and the required Branch or Functional Area credentialing course. The Army began selecting RA Army Competitive Cate-gory basic branch and functional area officers for 10-month resident and 14-week satellite campus ILE opportunities and select credentialing programs approved in lieu of CGSOC Advanced Operations Course beginning with year group 2004. Officers participating in credentialing programs approved in lieu of CGSOC Advanced Operations Course not included in the selection board process will continue to receive ILE credit and be considered by the ILE Selection Board for CGSOC Common Core Satellite attendance only. In support of the AD 2012  08, each ILE seminar at Ft. Leavenworth should have at least one RC officer (ARNG or USAR) in attendance. b.  ILE is attended by all Army officers in the rank of CPT (if promotable) or MAJ who are CCC graduates; sister service officers of equivalent rank, international military officers, and selected civilians from other Government agencies. c.  Army officers will complete CGSOC by their 15th year of commissioned service and by no later than the 5th year of time-in-grade rank of MAJ.  d.  Army Officers who complete CGSOC common core and an approved credentialing course are JPME I, ILE, and/or MEL 4 complete. The credentialing course for basic branch officers is the CGSOC Advanced Operations Course (AOC) and is completed immediately following the CGSOC Common Core at Fort Leavenworth. The functional area and special branch (AMEDD, JAGC, and Chaplain) credentialing courses are designated by the proponents. The functional area cre-dentialing courses range from 3 to 179 weeks. For some functional area and special branch officers, the tailored educational experience will also include advance civil schooling. Army officers may also become JPME I and/or MEL 4 complete through completion of a resident Sister Service School, a resident Joint School, an approved Foreign ILE school or com-pletion of a credentialing program approved in lieu of CGSOC Advanced Operations Course. Army officers will complete ILE as follows: (1)  RC officers commissioned prior to 31 December 1993 must complete CGSOC Common Core or Legacy CGSOC. (2)  RC officers commissioned 1 January 1994 and later who did not complete resident or non-resident legacy CGSOC will be afforded the opportunity to complete the CGSOC Common Core in one of three ways: (a)  In residence at the 10 month course at Fort Leavenworth. Army officers will be selected for attendance at the 10 month course at Fort Leavenworth. This is for select RA basic branch, functional area officers and special branch officers, select RC officers, the traditional complement of sister service, DA Civilians, select them from other Government agencies and international officers. (b)  In residence at satellite campuses. Army officers will be selected for attendance at satellite campuses. This is pri-marily for select RA basic branch, functional area and special branch officers, RA officers participating in credentialing programs approved in lieu of CGSOC Advanced Operations Course and select RC officers. (c)  Distance learning format. The nonresident CGSOC Common Core is equivalent to the resident course for satisfying career schooling requirements and must be completed within the published course standards (see course information on ATRRS). HRC will grant reservations for Regular Army officers in DL courses within 6 month after release of the CGSOC Selection Board results. The CGSOC distance education course is presented in two formats: Web-based DL and TASS. The web-based DL is organized into three sequential phases, and consists of nine blocks of instruction, with one or more examinations graded by the faculty within the CGSC, Department of Distance Education. Several blocks of instruction require electronic submission of written requirements that are graded upon established objective criteria. The TASS, Re-serve School format is presented by training battalions at numerous teaching locations both CONUS and OCONUS. This option is also organized into three sequential phases with modules, or sub-courses, designed to parallel those in the web-based DL format. Each course block of instruction contains written requirements and one or more examinations. (3)  All Army officers, regardless of component, in year group 94 and subsequent year groups or commissioned 1 Jan-uary 1994 and later who did not complete resident or non-resident legacy CGSOC must complete an approved ILE cre-dentialing course in order to be awarded JPME I/MEL 4 credit. (4)  The credentialing course for basic branch officers is CGSOC Advanced Operations Course. Basic branch officers will complete the Advanced Operations Course following CGSOC Common Core. They can complete CGSOC Advanced Operations Course in two ways: (a)  In residence at the 10-month course immediately following the CGSOC Common Core at Fort Leavenworth. Army officers must be selected for attendance at the 10 month resident course at Fort Leavenworth. This is for select RA basic branch, functional area and special branch officers, select RC officers, the traditional complement of sister service, selected civilians from other U.S. government agencies, and international officers. (b)  Through DL. The DL version of the Advanced Operations Course is outlined in the published course standards (see course information on ATRRS) and consists of six blocks of instruction encompassing five areas of concentration: history, leadership, Combined Forces Land Component Command (CFLCC) operations, division operations, and BCT operations module. (c)  Students enrolled in CGSOC Distance Learning programs who do not make adequate progress or are inactive for extended periods of time or missing school completion timelines outlined in the published course standards (see course information on ATRRS) may be dis-enrolled for non-participation by the school director without the requirement of a DA form 1059/AER being submitted. The school will notify the parent unit and/or command of the student being dis-enrolled from the course for non-participation. Disenrollment for non-participation is limited to one occurrence. If the student re-enrolls and again fails to meet course standards and/or school established completion timelines they will be dis-enrolled and receive a DA form 1059/AER. (5)  In many cases, functional area and special branch officers complete their ILE credentialing course before complet-ing CGSOC Common Core. e.  Government Civilians may attend resident or non-resident CGSOC on a space available basis.  If the individual is also an Army basic branch officer and completes the 10-month resident CGSOC, the individual will receive JPME I/ MEL 4 credit. If a functional area or special branch officer attends the 10-month resident CGSOC as a Civilian, the individual must also complete the functional area or special branch credentialing course to receive JPME I/MEL 4 credit. Addition-ally, government Civilians who are also Army basic branch officers and complete resident sister-service ILE will receive JPME I/MEL 4 credit. If a functional area or special branch officer attends resident Sister Service ILE as a Civilian, the individual must also complete the functional area or special branch credentialing course to receive JPME I/MEL 4 credit. Government Civilians who are Army officers and complete resident or non-resident CGSOC Common Core must also complete their respective ILE credentialing course to receive JPME I/MEL 4 credit. Request to enroll in resident or non-resident CGSOC should be submitted to TRADOC for approval. f.  Resident sister-service ILE.  Officers must be selected by their component to attend resident sister service ILE. Of-ficers selected must complete the CGSOC preparatory course (P  950) prior to attendance. Functional area and special branch officers may be selected to attend international and sister-service schools, but must still attend their respective credentialing courses to receive JPME I/MEL 4 credit. Officers, to include Army Civilians who are also in the RC, will not enroll in resident Sister Service ILE without written approval of DCS, G  3/5/7 (Director of Training) (see AR 350  1). g.  Non-resident sister-service ILE. Officers, to include Army Civilians who are also in the RC, will not enroll in non-resident Sister Service ILE without written approval of DCS, G  3/5/7 (Director of Training) (see AR 350  1). The non-resident ILE sister service courses are Air Force Command and Staff College (non-resident), College of Continuing Edu-cation/College of Distance Education (Navy Intermediate Level College)( non-resident), Air Command and Staff College (non-resident), and Marine Corps College of Continuing Education (Non-resident). The requirements for completion of non-resident sister service ILE are as follows: (1)  Basic branch officers who enrolled in non-resident sister-service ILE prior to 18 December 2009, must complete the non-resident sister service course and CGSOC Advanced Operations Course to be JPME I/MEL 4 complete. Functional area and special branch officers must complete the non-resident sister service course, and their respective credentialing course to be JPME I/MEL 4 complete. (2)  Officers who enrolled in non-resident sister service ILE between 18 December 2009 and 27 April 2011 without approval must request constructive credit per AR 350  1, paragraph 3  20. If approved, the basic branch officer must com-plete non-resident sister-service school and CGSOC Advanced Operations Course to be JPME I/MEL 4 complete. Func-tional area and special branch officers must complete the non- resident sister-service course and their respective creden-tialing course to be JPME I/MEL 4 complete. (3)  Officers who desire to participate in non-resident sister service ILE after 27 April 2011 must obtain approval from the DCS, G  3/5/7 (Director of Training) prior to enrolling. Officers will submit their request by DA Form 4187 through their chain of command and component human resources command (Army Human Resources Command, Fort Knox for active and USAR officers or the NGB for ARNG officers) to the Army G  3/5/7 for decision. If approved by the DCS, G  3/5/7, the basic branch officer must complete the non-resident sister service course and CGSOC Advanced Operations Course to be JPME I/MEL 4 complete. Functional area and special branch officers must complete the non-resident sister service course, and their respective credentialing course to be JPME I/MEL 4 complete.  h.  Foreign intermediate level education.  Officers must be selected by their component to attend foreign ILE. Officers selected for attendance at other nations intermediate staff colleges listed in CJCS memorandum, subject, Program for JPME I equivalent credit must first complete the P  950 course; except Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Coop-eration. Officers attending foreign ILE not listed in CJCS memorandum, subject: Program for JPME I equivalent credit must complete CGSOC Common Core in order to be JPME I/MEL 4 complete. Functional area and special branch officers may attend international and sister service schools, but must still attend their respective credentialing courses to be cre-dentialed JPME I/MEL 4. Officers will not enroll in other than Army schools without written approval of the DCS, G  3/ 5/7 (Director of Training). i.  The Army DCS, G  3/5/7 can approve credentialing of programs or courses in lieu of CGSOC Advanced Operations Course. Army basic branch officers selected for one of the programs approved in lieu of CGSOC Advanced Operations Course must complete all ILE requirements of the program in order to receive JPME I/MEL 4 credit. The DCS, G  3/5/7 in coordination with the DCS, G  1 will determine which credentialing programs approved in lieu of CGSOC Advanced Operations Course will be considered a part of the ILE Selection Board. The programs/courses to be considered by the ILE Selection Board will be included on the ILE quota memorandum. Officers selected by the ILE Selection Board for one of these programs or courses are not eligible for any other ILE 10 month resident course. Officers selected for CGSOC common 14 week satellite campus or complete non-resident CGSOC common core and all requirements of one of these programs or courses can receive JPME 1/MEL 4 credit. Functional area and special branch officers participating in these programs must also complete their respective credentialing program to be JPME 1/MEL 4 complete. The programs ap-proved as credentialing methods in lieu of CGSOC Advanced Operations Course are as follows: (1)  Army officers who attend the Naval Postgraduate School and complete the Naval Command and Staff Distance Education Course and the CGSOC Preparatory Course (P950) while in attendance at Naval Postgraduate School. Officers at Naval Postgraduate School must not incur additional tuition costs or fees as a result. Officers not considered by the ILE Selection board for Naval Postgraduate School attendance will not be required to complete the Naval Command and Staff Distance Education and ILE Preparatory Course (P950) while in attendance at Naval Postgraduate School but will com-plete CGSOC common core to receive JPME 1/MEL 4 credit. (2)  Army officers who complete CGSOC Common Core and all requirements of one of the following programs: the Joint Chief of Staff/Office of the Secretary of Defense Internship Program, the Army Congressional Fellowship Program, the Major General (Ret) James M. Wright Memorial MBA Program, the General Wayne A. Downing Scholarship program, or the U.S. Army Cyber Command Scholarship Program. (3)  Special Forces officers who complete CGSOC Common Core and the National Inter-agency and Inter-governmental Course and the Special Operations Legislative Affairs Program. (4)  Civil Affairs and Psychological Operations Officers who complete CGSOC Common Core and the Stability, Secu-rity, and Development in Complex Operations Certificate Program. (5)  Officers participating in the Afghanistan/Pakistan Hands Program who complete CGSOC Common Core and the National Defense University College of International Security Affairs Strategic Studies, the National Defense University College of International Security Affairs South Central Asia Graduate Certificate, and the National Intelligence University Masters of Science of Strategic Intelligence (military intelligence officers only) Programs. j.  Course credit. (1)  Army officers may request for ILE constructive, equivalent, or operational credit per AR 350  1, paragraph 3  20. (2)  Year groups 93 and earlier: Army majors who are assessed from other Services or completed ILE as Government Civilians and graduated from an accredited other Service command and staff college (resident and non-resident courses alike) receive constructive credit from major-level PME.  Table 3  2 Intermediate level education requirements for other Service assessed and Government Civilian graduates (for officers in Year Group or Commission Year 94 and subsequent year groups)  Continued     Completed Resident Other Service com-mand staff college   Completed Nonresident Other Service com-mand staff college   Completed Army CGSOC   Should Take   Other Service Assessed Basic Branch Officer   X         Intermediate Level Education Of-ficer Preparatory course (online) (P  920)   Other Service Assessed Basic Branch Officer      X      CGSOC  AOC (DL)   Other Service Assessed Special Branch or Func-tional Area Officer   X         P  920 and Proponent ILE Cre-dentialing Course   Other Service Assessed Special Branch or Func-tional Area Officer      X      P  920 and Proponent ILE Cre-dentialing Course   Govt Civilian Graduate Basic Branch Officer   X         P  920   Govt Civilian Graduate Basic Branch Officer      X      CGSOC  AOC (DL)   Govt Civilian Graduate Basic Branch Officer         X   None   Govt Civilian Graduate Special Branch or Func-tional Area Officer   X         Proponent ILE Credentialing Course   Govt Civilian Graduate Special Branch or Func-tional Area Officer      X      Proponent ILE Credentialing Course   Govt Civilian Graduate Special Branch or Func-tional Area Officer         X   Proponent ILE Credentialing Course    k.  Warrant officers who have completed the WOAC may be board-selected to attend the CGSOC 10-month or CGSOC Common Core at a satellite campus on a standby basis. The DCS, G  3/5/7 is the approval authority for warrant officers to enroll in CGSOC. l.  Defense contractors are not eligible to enroll in the nonresident DL format course. m.  Requests by international military personnel who meet eligibility requirements to enroll in or audit the nonresident course must be processed through the Security Assistance Office of the country concerned to HQ, TRADOC, G  3/5/7, Director, SAFTA, (ATTG  TRI  S), 950 Jefferson Avenue, Fort Eustis, VA 23604  5724. n.  The records of ILE graduates are coded by HRC Ft. Knox and Chief, NGB to reflect PME completion and an award of JPME Phase I / MEL 4 credit. 3  40.  Advanced Military Studies Program a.  The Advanced Military Studies Program (AMSP) provides advanced education in military arts and science for se-lected ILE graduates. The school emphasizes planning and executing unified land operations focused on linking Army operational and tactical actions in pursuit of strategic objectives. b.  The AMSP prepares officers to plan and conduct future operations across the wide range of military operations. Successful completion of the AMSP curriculum leads to award of a Military Arts and Sciences Degree. Following gradu-ation, students complete the final part of the program by serving utilization tours on a division or corps staff or in an operational staff position. AMSP builds effective leaders, competent, operational planners and good teammates. 3  41.  Command Team and Key Billet Training and Education This paragraph provides policies governing Command Preparation Programs for Company Command, Battalion Com-mand, Brigade Command and Key Billet (G  1, G  2, G  6, G  8, FA50, PAO, Acquisition CSL Key Billets) Acquisition CSL Key Billets) and U.S. Military Observer Group (USMOG ) command selectees. The School for Command Preparation (SCP) has been designated as the lead agent for the Command Preparation Program. In this capacity, SCP synchronizes the Armys Command Preparation Program and conducts Pre Command Courses for Brigade, Battalion Commanders, Command Sergeants Major and their spouses in order to provide formations with competent, committed leaders of char-acter prepared to lead changes, prevail in Unified Land Operation and better prepared to lead and generate readiness within their units. Throughout the phases, the self-development of each commander/CSM is a key focus area. Changes to curric-ulum follow a deliberate process managed by SCP through the program manager (PM), Command Team Enterprise. Or-ganizations requesting changes be made to any course managed by SCP should first contact the PM. a.  Company command.  The Company Commander First Sergeant PCC is a mandatory resident experience with sup-porting DL components. The resident experience will be conducted at the installation and address topics prescribed by the Army that require a specific installation focus. Senior mission commanders have extensive latitude to add items of interest as well as methods of delivery. Supporting DL lessons will be available via Army Learning Management System and Army Training Network to provide knowledge-level learning, complementing the face-to-face experience of the resident course. (1)  The objective of this course is to ensure company commanders and first sergeants know Army and command pro-grams, policies, procedures and command team responsibilities. The course proponent (SCP) maintains a list of Critical Tasks required in all Company Commander First Sergeant PCCs. Training product standards are maintained by SCP, and SCP updates the list of critical tasks at least annually. CG CAC approves changes to the critical task list. (2)  Completion of the resident Company Commander First Sergeant Course is mandatory prior to assuming duties. Authority to grant an exception is granted to the first general officer in the chain of command. (3)  USAR company command teams will attend the USARC Company Command First Sergeant Course. The DL les-sons are available prior to assuming duties via Army Learning Management System to provide knowledge-level learning. TRADOC will develop and maintain standard TSPs for critical tasks and associated learning outcomes required for all Army Company Commander First Sergeant PCCs. b.  Brigade and battalion command selectees.  RA key billet selectees and RA Combat Aviation Brigade and RA Army Special Forces Group Command Chief Warrant Officers. Brigade and battalion command preparation is a multiphase program that provides focused leader development opportunities for all of the Armys future senior leaders. The program is enhanced by the attendance of select RA key billet Centralized Selection List selectees and RA Combat Aviation Brigade and Army Special Forces Group Command Chief Warrant Officers. Regular Army and AGR brigade and battalion-level selectees will attend a three or four phase pre-command continuing training and education program, depending on type and level of command prior to assuming command. USAR AGR and TPU BN/BDE commanders and CSMs will attend a USAR specific course preceding or following the RA Phase I course. Attendance at the Command Team Training and Education four-phase program for battalion and brigade CSL selected officers, CSM select, RA/RC AGR CSL Key Billet selected officers and RA Combat Aviation Brigade and Army Special Forces Group Command Chief Warrant Officers is outlined in table 3  3. Commanders, Command Sergeants Major and Key Billet personnel will attend PCC Phase I prior to assuming command and responsibility. Regular Army Commanders who cannot attend prior to assuming command require VCSA approval. Acquisition CSL Key Billet attendees who cannot attend command preparation training prior to assuming their position require Army Acquisition Executive approval.  RA CSM who cannot attend prior to as assuming responsi-bility requires SMA approval. See paragraph 3 62  for information on PCC for CSMs.  (1)  Registration. Prerequisites for each phase are outlined in ATRRS at http://atrrs.army.mil. Attendance for each phase is scheduled by HRC, the SLDO, or the ARNG as appropriate unless otherwise stated. (2)  Attendance policy is outlined in table 3  3. (a)  Phase I.  Mandatory attendance is provided in table 3  3. Command Team (BDE/BN CDR and CSM) Spouse De-velopment Course is available during Phase I and is voluntary. Spouses must attend concurrently with service member. (b)  Phase II.  Mandatory attendance is provided in table 3  3. Each selectee will attend a Phase II course appropriate for the type unit they will command. (c)  Phase III.  Mandatory attendance is provided in table 3  3. Branch Regimental Command Chief Warrant Officers will attend locally after assuming position. (d)  Phase IV.  Attendance is mandatory per paragraph 341b(2)(d) and table 3  3.   Table 3  3 Army Brigade and Battalion Pre-command Course attendance policy  Continued  Attendee Cate-gory   Phase I   Phase II   Phase III   Phase IV    (RA) BDE/BN CDRs   X (w/Spouse)   X   X   X (only Bn w/SPCA; all Bde Cdr)    (RA) BDE/BN CSM   X (w/Spouse)   X          (RA) Key Bil-lets (G  1, G  2, G  6, G  8, FA50, PAO)   X      X       (RA / RC AGR) Acquisition Pro-gram/Product Managers (Key Billets)   X   X   X       (RA) Command Chief Warrant Officers (Com-bat Aviation Bde & Special Forces Group)   X      X      (RA)  RCWO / CWOB Regi-mental  --  --  X  --   (AGR) BDE/BN CDRs   X (w/Spouse)   X   X   X (only Bn w/SPCA; all Bde Cdr)    (AGR) BDE/BN CSM   X (w/Spouse)   X          (USAR TPU) BDE/BN CDRs   X (w/Spouse)   *   *   X (only Bn w/SPCA; all Bde Cdr)    (USAR TPU) BDE/BN CSM   X (w/Spouse)   *          (ARNG TPU) BDE/BN CDRs   *   *   X   X (only Bn w/SPCA; all Bde Cdr)    (ARNG TPU) BDE/BN CSM   *   *         Note: 1 * = Space Available attendance only. 2 X = mandatory.  (3)  Phase descriptions. (a)  Phase I.  Brigade PCC/CSMC and Battalion PCC/CSMC are branch immaterial courses conducted by SCP at Fort Leavenworth, KS. At the end of each course, future commanders/Command Sergeants Major are better prepared to facili-tate mission command and lead change within their Operational Environment by: executing the Art of Command and Mission Command, developing their self-awareness and enhancing their leadership skills, understanding Army policies, programs and areas of special interest, and developing a personal/family approach for balance and resiliency. This is ac-complished through senior leader discussions on current information on Army policies and programs and small group seminars focused on leadership and special items of interest. Additionally, SCP conducts the Command Team Spouse Development course for both battalion and brigade spouses concurrent with week 1 of PCC. The spouse courses are vol-untary. (b)  Phase II.  There are seven different phase II venues. Attendance at a venue depends on the type of unit the officer will command. The following tasks will be included in these programs: Training and Leader Development, Doctrine/Policy Updates, and Building Command Teams (commander-CSM/Sr Civilian). 1.  Brigade Command Tactical Commander Development Program.  Officers slated to command tactical brigades will attend Brigade Command Tactical Commander Development Program at Fort Leavenworth, KS. Brigade Command Tac-tical Commander Development Program's focus is: Improving commanders' ability to integrate and synchronize all of the Warfighting functions resident at the brigade level in Combined Arms Maneuver; and to improve commanders' ability to drive the operations process through the Understand, Visualize, Describe, Direct, Lead, and Assess methodology. 2.  Tactical Commanders Development Program.  This course is for all operational MTOE battalion command design-ees. The program is a graduate-level seminar that provides opportunities for future battalion commanders to critically assess and intellectually prepare for command. The Tactical Commander Development Program is focused on the Art of Tactics, Training to achieve readiness, and Leader Development for Decisive Action. Tactical Commander Development Program is designed to achieve increased Leader Competency/Tactical Knowledge for seizing retaining and exploiting the initiative to gain and maintain a position of relative advantage through the execution of Decisive Action Operations, Leader Development, and Training Management. 3.  Garrison commands.  The Garrison PCC, taught at Fort Sam Houston, TX is attended by colonels and lieutenant colonels and CSM designees centrally selected to command garrisons, area support groups and base support battalions. Senior Civilians selected as deputy commanders attend Garrison PCC. The Garrison PCC focuses on installation, ACP and HQDA-level leadership, management and relationships. The curriculum focuses on existing and emerging issues af-fecting and influenced by people, resources, facilities, logistics, organizations and doctrine. 4.  Initial entry training commanders.  This PCC, taught at Ft. Jackson, SC, prepares IET brigade and battalion com-mand designees and CSM designees for assignments to Basic Combat Training, AIT, or OSUT organizations. Addition-ally, IMT command designees attend both their branch-specific PCC and the branch-immaterial PCC. The RA and AGR command designees attend prior to assuming command. RC Tradition Member selectees are encouraged to attend. 5.  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Commands.  The USACE PCC, conducted by HQ, USACE, Washington, DC, pre-pares officers to command USACE Divisions and Districts. Attendance is mandatory for all District command designees and recommended for all Division command designees who have not commanded in USACE. Travel to support the USACE PCC is centrally funded by Headquarters, USACE. 6.  Acquisition corps commands.  Acquisition Corps Central Selection List  Key Billet (CSL  KB): Selected officers and civilian equivalents will attend acquisition specific training as outlined in 10 USC 1733  1735, and DACM CSL policy. HRC will schedule project/product managers to attend a specific branch PCC aligned with each acquisition CSL  KB. HRC will schedule contracting commanders/Acquisition Directors to the Contracting PCC Course. HRC will also schedule all Acquisition CSL-KBs to the Army Acquisition Leader Preparation Course (AALPC). CSL  KB selectees who have attended a PCC within the past 5 years, may attend Phase I and Phase III PCC subject to availability and approval and funding from the USAASC. 7.  Recruiting commands.  Selectees will complete non-resident instruction prior to attending resident Recruiting PCC training at Fort Jackson, SC. Point of Contact: HRC Officer Personnel Management Directorate, Leadership Development Division. 8.  Other commands.  Command designees assuming non-IMT TRADOC commands attend the branch-immaterial and branch-specific PCCs only. (c)  Phase III.  Branch-specific Command Preparation Program. Instruction provided at the officers branch school, fo-cuses on tactical and technical aspects of command. The following tasks are to be included in each course:  employment, training, maintenance of units, leader development, building command teams (commander-CSM), AT Level III, Space (D3SOE), EW/CYBER, OPSEC, and Legal. 1.  Maneuver enhancement brigade commands.  The Maneuver Enhancement Brigade PCC, taught at Ft. Leonard Wood, MO and is a multifunctional branch phase that focuses on leadership, technical, tactical, and administrative skills required in commanding a maneuver enhancement brigade. 2.  Brigade special troops battalion commands.  The Brigade Special Troops Battalion PCC is taught at Fort Leonard Wood, MO and is a multifunctional branch phase that focuses on leadership, technical, tactical, and administrative skills required in commanding a Brigade Special Troops Battalion. 3.  Other Commands.  Branch PCCs focuses on tactical and technical aspects of command. Special areas of interest include AT, EW, force protection and those required by the branch commandant. 4.  General information.  All branch PCC will coordinate with the SCP to synchronize programs in order to eliminate redundancy. (d)  Phase IV. All DA CSL selected Regular Army and Reserve Component battalion commanders with special court-martial convening authority and all DA CSL selected brigade commanders (RA/RC) and the USMOG command selectee will attend the Senior Officer Legal Orientation Course, held at The Judge Advocate General's Legal Center and School, Charlottesville, VA. This course acquaints these Army officers with the legal responsibilities and issues commonly faced by garrison, brigade and battalion commanders. All those commanders required to attend must do so prior to assumption of command at both the battalion and brigade levels. Colonels (O6) transitioning between command billets must repeat attendance of this phase if their last attendance occurred more than 3 years before assumption of command date. Regular Army commanders who cannot attend prior to assuming command must obtain the VCSA approval. (e)  USMOG  command selectee will attend a two phase pre-command continuing training and education program. Selectee will attend PCC Phase I (see paras  341b(2)(a) and 341b(3)(a)) and Phase IV (see paras  341b(2)(d) and 341b(3)(d)) prior to assuming command and responsibility or within three months of assumption. Spouse is eligible to the Command Team Spouse Development Course as outlined in paragraph 341b(2)(a). 3  42.  Senior Service Education SSE prepares senior officers and senior warrant officers to be strategically minded joint leader educated in the Profession of Arms. SSE develops critical and reflective thinkers who broadly view military affairs across an array of academic disciplines, preparing senior leaders to serve at the strategic level. SSE opportunities are Warrant Officer Senior Service Education (WOSSE) and the Senior Service Colleges (SSC). 3  43.  Warrant Officer Senior Service Education The WOSSE is the capstone for WO PME conducted at the USAWOCC, Fort Rucker, AL. The USAWOCC develops the DL and resident POI and serves as the course proponent. The course focuses on the senior level staff officer and leadership skills required to serve in CW5 positions at brigade and strategic levels. Instruction includes force integration, Joint military operations, leadership, logistics, and management skills. a.  WOSSE is attended by ARNG and USAR CW4s, RA Technical Services CW4s, and RA Aviation Branch CW4(P) and CW5s who are WOILE or equivalent graduates.  WOs must have a minimum of 12 months between completion of WOILE and start of WOSSE Phase II. b.  When specified by their respective branch, WOs are required to attend additional branch specific SSE phases. WOs will complete WOSSE phases in the order prescribed by their branch. Branch specific SSE phases ensure Senior level WOs receive the latest technical/functional PME within their career field. (1)  Each resident phase will issue a DA Form 1059. (2)  WOs will not be awarded MEL L until all phases are complete. c.  WOSSE completion timelines.  RA Technical Services WOs and all ARNG and USAR WOs are expected to com-plete WOSSE prior to promotion to CW5.  RA Aviation WOs are expected to complete WOSSE within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW5. d.  WOSSE graduates will be identified by award of MEL L. Phase 1 (DL) must be completed prior to attending the resident Phase 2. 3  44.  Senior service colleges a.  The resident SSCs listed in paragraph 312d and USAWC DEP are at the same military educational level and lead to award of MEL 1 upon completion. The eligibility requirements for officers are: (1)  DA Board selected (Exceptions  Superintendent, USMA and Commandant, USAWC selected FA47 officers who are military and academic leaders within respective departments at USMA and at the USAWC. (See paragraph c. below) (2)  Must be JPME Phase 1 complete (3)  Must be LTC/GS  14 (or equivalent) or above (4)  Will have no more than 23 years of active federal commissioned service (AFCS). Promotion list service determines years of service for RA officers (except MEDCOM and JAGC). The AFCS is the governing factor for MEDCOM officers and for other-than-regular Army officers. b.  SSC provides the education for selected personnel as follows: A military member O  5 and above, or Army Civilian GS  14 (or equivalent) and above, or who occupies a leadership position (both command and staff) that requires a thorough knowledge of strategy and the art and science of developing and using elements of national power (diplomatic, informa-tional, military and economic) during peace and war. This knowledge is necessary in order to perform Army, Joint, or Defense Agency operations at the strategic level (ACOM, ASCC, DRU, Field Operating Agency, Joint Task Force or higher). On a case-by-case basis, DARNG has the authority to waiver the no-more-than 23 years AFCS. c.  DCS, G  3/5/7 recognizes USMA and USAWC requirement to provide senior level education for detailed/permanent faculty that have been selected to lead their respective departments. Because these FA 47 officers are not considered for selection by Army competitive boards for attendance at SSC venues, DCS, G  3/5/7 supports memorandum of agreements between USMA and USAWC and other SSC platforms but their attendance will not be part of Army SSC quotas. Addi-tionally, USMA and USAWC will not receive additional funding to support these MOAs but use available leader devel-opment funding to conduct these opportunities. d.  DCS,  G  3/5/7 will not recognize other standing MOAs which provides officers the opportunity to attend SSC unless endorsed by DCS, G  3/5/7 and supported by DCS, G  1. This requirement is designed to insure the Armys SSC selection process is not compromised or circumvented. 3  45.  U.S. Army War College The U.S. Army War College (USAWC), Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, is the Armys center for strategic thought. The USAWC's mission is to educate and develop leaders for service at the strategic level while advancing knowledge in the global application of Landpower. Toward this end, the USAWC conducts a resident education program (REP) and a dis-tance education program (DEP). Both programs focus on strategic art--that is, the alignment of ends, ways, and means to support national policy objectives. Students completing either program receive a USAWC diploma and a master's degree in Strategic Studies. (USAWC is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education.) REP graduates also receive Joint Professional Military Education Phase II (JPME II) credit, while DEP graduates receive JPME I credit. a.  Derived from the institutions contemporary mission and historical purpose, the USAWC Institutional Learning Ob-jective focuses the War Colleges academic programs on the knowledge and abilities required of military leaders at the strategic level: Our graduates are intellectually prepared to preserve peace, deter aggression, and, when necessary, achieve victory in war through studying and conferring on the great problems of national defense, military science, and responsible command. Achieving this objective requires proficiency in four domains of knowledge: (1)  Theory of war and peace. (2)  U.S. national security policy, processes, and management. (3)  Military Strategy and unified theater operations. (4)  Command and leadership. This objective also requires the ability and commitment to: (a)  Think critically, analytically, creatively, and strategically. (b)  Frame national security challenges in their historical, cultural, and economic contexts. (c)  Make ethical decisions and promote military culture that reflect the values of the American Profession of Arms. (d)  Listen, read, speak and write effectively. (e)  Advance the intellectual, physical and moral development of oneself and ones subordinate. b.  The USAWC conducts resident, nonresident, and other educational programs to enable military, Army Civilian, and foreign military leaders to meet MEL 1 Program Learning Objectives. These Program Learning Objectives delineate crit-ical fields of knowledge and appropriate jurisdictions of practice for the resident and distance students to master. The core competence of the graduates is leadership in the global application of strategic land power. To accomplish its mission, SSL presents a curriculum designed to produce graduates who can. (1)  Evaluate theories of war and strategy and processes of policy formulation, then apply them to the great problems of national security (2)  Analyze, adapt, and develop military processes, organizations and capabilities to achieve national defense objec-tives. (3)  Apply strategic and operational art to create effective strategies and plans toward the application of the military instrument of power in pursuit of national security aims. (4)  Evaluate the nature, concepts and components of strategic leadership and synthesize their responsible application. (5)  Apply critical and creative thinking to national security issues at the strategic level. (6)  Communicate clearly, persuasively and candidly. c.  In addition to the REP and DEP, the USAWC administers a variety of developmental courses, programs and semi-nars. (1)  Senior Leader Seminar: Senior Leader Development Course.  The Senior Leader Seminar: Senior leader Develop-ment Course, is a one-week Total Army leader development course designed to enhance the education of select senior Army O6s, Chief Warrants Officer 5, select Command/ Sergeants Major, and Army civilians (GS  15) who are either currently assigned to, or projected for assignment to, key positions as advisors and staff officers for general officers and senior civilian leaders. The Senior Leader Seminar course offers an experience that is both broadening and educational, focused on increasing their preparation for service at the national level. Senior Leader Seminar: Senior Leader Develop-ment Course is the result of an Army Leader Development program initiative coordinated by the Center for Strategic Leadership, USAWC. It is conducted twice annually. Attendance is by invitation through the respective cohort senior management offices. Department of the Army Civilian eligibility criteria and selection requirement details are in paragraph 4  22. (2)  Nominative Leaders Course.  The NLC is a strategic level Army course for CSMs and SGMs serving at the nomi-native sergeant major level. Command Sergeants Major and Sergeants Majors selected for the 1 and 2 star command-level nominative assignment pool will attend the course after their nominative pool selection is validated. The NLC is a two week strategic leader development course conducted at Carlisle Barracks, PA. This course is designed to prepare graduates to immediately serve as valued senior enlisted advisors in executive-level U.S. Army nominative assignments, equipped with the knowledge, skills, and attributes required to provide quality advice that helps their leaders and their organizations to operate more effectively. Scheduling for all NLC  attendees is through the Sergeants Major Management Office (SMMO) with eligibility criteria and selection requirement details are in paragraph 3  61. d.  The USAWC conducts an International Fellows Program for selected senior officers of foreign nations. e.  The USAWC maintains close and continuing working relationships with HQDA, TRADOC, Army University and Joint Staff J7 to ensure synchronization of OES goals. It also maintains liaison with other elements of the military education system and Civilian educators. 3  46.  Army War College Fellowship Program a.  The primary goal of all Fellowships is professional development. Officers who participate in the Army War College Fellowship Program forgo any other opportunity for SSC education. SSC credit (MEL 1 only) will be granted to senior Army officers who successfully complete at least a nine-month program. The program must be academically structured to provide an educational experience requiring fellows to study and critically evaluate broad national security policy, strategy, interagency, and operational issues to substantially enhance their ability to participate effectively in the formulation and implementation of national security policy. b.  Army War College Fellowships are governed in accordance with AR 621  7. The proponent for Army fellowships is DCS, G  3/5/7 (Strategic Leadership Division). USAWC will advise the CSA on all aspects of the Fellowship Program and provide guidance and support as necessary to ensure the Fellows successfully represent the Army at the host institu-tions. c.  Fellowship opportunities are designed to provide unique personal and professional educational experiences to Army officers that are not available through traditional PME. Fellowships enhance the officers capabilities to meet specific requirements for Army leaders that serve at the highest levels of the national security establishment. d.  Fellows serve as Army representatives within various universities, private institutions, international, and governmen-tal agencies, and become a vehicle for strategic outreach to facilitate networking with current and future national security professionals. e.  Fellowships serve these purposes: (1)  To provide select skills required by the Army for a specific follow-on assignment; (2)  Personal enhancement and individual development for future higher-level assignments; and future national security professionals. (3)  Outreach with organizations outside of the military system including U.S. local, State and Federal Governments, and corporate, academic and international agencies. 3  47.  Chief of Staff, Army Fellowship Program a.  The intent of the CSA Fellowship Program is to provide post MEL  1 Officers the opportunity to develop professional networks, engage civilian counterparts and appreciate the techniques used outside DOD to articulate issues and influence strategic solutions at the Federal level. In addition, these Fellows serve as Army ambassadors for the SECARMY, CSA, Vice Chief of Staff, Army (VCSA), Under Secretary of the Army (USA) and other key Army Leaders. b.  CSA Fellowships are governed in accordance with AR 621  7. The proponent for Army Fellowships is DCS, G  3/5/7 (Strategic Leadership Division). USAWC will advise the CSA on all aspects of the Fellowship Program and provide guid-ance and support as necessary to ensure the Fellows successfully represent the Army at the host institutions. c.  CSA Fellowship opportunities provide unique personal and professional educational experiences to Army officers that are not available through traditional PME. Senior fellowships contribute to the Army Strategic Outreach Program by enhancing communication between the Army and important academic and policy institutions. Fellowships enhance the officers capabilities to meet specific requirements for Army leaders that serve at the highest levels of the national security establishment. d.  The CSA Fellowship Program provides select skills required by the Army for a specific follow-on assignment; per-sonal enhancement and individual development for future higher-level assignments; and outreach with organizations out-side of the military system including U.S. local, state, and federal governments, corporate, political, academic, and inter-national agencies and institutions. Each fellowship should be unique, but all strive to encompass these purposes in varying order of priority and emphasis. 3  48.  Advanced Strategic Leadership Studies Program a.  The Advanced Strategic Leadership Studies Program is a 24-month senior level course (SSC/MEL 1 / JPME II program) held at the School of Advanced Military Studies, Fort Leavenworth, KS. Class 2015 was the first class awarded JPME II. b.  The senior level course seminar at the School of Advanced Military Studies has eight U.S. Army, two USAF, one USMC, one U.S. Coast Guard, one or two U.S. agency representatives (typically Federal Bureau of Investigation and U.S. Agency for International Development) and three international officers (usually from the United Kingdom, Canada, and Germany). U.S. Army and USMC officers and international officers attend for two years; most other students 10 months to serve as seminar leaders for the AMSP conducted at School of Advanced Military Studies. c.  This senior level course is designed to develop theater level senior leaders and general staff officers for positions of significant responsibility including strategic thinkers and planners at CCMD, Joint Task Forces, and other four-star HQs. During the first year, students are in a curriculum shaped by the required learning areas for JPME II accreditation. The curriculum provides a comprehensive, multifaceted focus at the theater/strategic level across the spectrum of Joint and land force operations - during peace, crisis, and war. In their second year, designated students become members of the School of Advanced Military Studies faculty responsible to provide the coaching, mentoring, counseling, and military subject instruction for the education of the officers in the AMSP program. d.  Students in the senior level course spend approximately 9 weeks TDY, with fieldwork conducted at defense organi-zations and military headquarters in various foreign nations as well as visiting all CCMD Headquarters throughout the globe. They must also complete a 40 page research paper. Advanced Strategic Leadership Studies Program graduates are awarded MEL 1, JPME II Credit and Skill Identifier 6S (Advanced Military Studies Program Graduate). Graduates also receive a Masters in Theater Strategy through Command and General Staff College. This degree-granting program is ac-credited by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. 3  49.  Schools of Other Nations a.  The DCS, G  3/5/7 Strategy, Plans and Policy Directorate is the proponent for the Schools of Other Nations Pro-gram.  Schools of Other Nations (SON) is a U.S. Army security cooperation program executed by, with, and through the Theater Armies (geographic ASCCs) to maintain U.S. Army presence at selected partner nation military institutions. The programs aim is to develop closer Army/foreign army relationships by placing Army ILE and SSC eligible officers in foreign command and staff colleges, war colleges, or national defense universities on a PCS basis. These foreign military schools have a priority in order to fulfill the Armys Theater Security Cooperation objectives. Officers successfully com-pleting a foreign military school under the SON program will be credited with having completed the same level of school-ing as those who successfully complete the equivalent U.S. Service School. (For example, a graduate of the Canadian Forces Staff College will receive the same credit as a graduate of the CGSOC). b.  Establishing a School of other Nations position.  Incorporation of a foreign military school into SON begins with a proposal submitted by the Theater Army to DCS, G  3/5/7. HQDA approval is based upon an evaluation of the U.S. Armys security cooperation objectives as set forth in the HQDA and Theater Army Campaign Support Plans. At a minimum, proposals to incorporate a foreign military school into SON will include: (1)  Invitation from the partner nation or U.S. Embassy Team assurance of partner nation invitation. (2)  Course name, description, location and address. (3)  Course requirements (branch, rank, language level, security clearance, education prerequisites). (4)  Report, start, and graduation dates. (5)  Course frequency (annually, odd years only, by invitation only, etc). (6)  Tuition, fees, and curriculum-related travel expenses. (7)  Force protection requirements and estimated cost. (8)  Anticipated type and level of support from U.S. Embassy/Chief of Mission. (9)  Anticipated housing arrangements and their estimated costs. (10)  Tour type (accompanied/unaccompanied) and restrictions (privately owned vehicle, household goods, etc). (11)  Travel restrictions (passport type required, visa, etc). (12)  Any special instructions that should be included in the officers orders. c.  Human Resources Command will announce School of Nations requirement opportunities in annual military person-nel messages.  Appendix D contains a listing of foreign school requirements existing at the time of this publication.  d.  Nominations.  Nominees for foreign ILE and SSC SON requirements will come from the corresponding U.S. Army MEL 4 and MEL 1 selection boards. The selection for participation in SON will be on a highly selective basis from among qualified personnel that meet the schools prerequisites. HRC will submit nominations for SON participation through DCS, G  3/5/7 (Army International Affairs Division) to the appropriate U.S. Theater Army Security Cooperation Division for forwarding to the partner nation School. The Theater Army will provide DCS, G  3/ 5/7 and HRC with the partner nations decision in a timely manner (typically 30 days). e.  Administration and control.  Although SON participants are assigned against the strength of the U.S. Army Student Detachment, Fort Jackson, SC, they are attached to the U.S. Theater Army Security Cooperation Division for all supervi-sion and administration support. The Theater Army serves as the SON administrator in the corresponding region. Super-vision and administration includes, but is not limited to: (1)  Theater specific support (force protection, etc). (2)  UCMJ/administrative actions. (3)  Personnel support. (4)  Finance support. (5)  Security clearances. (6)  Country clearances, passports/visa requirements. (7)  Student travel authorization (curriculum related). (8)  Travel management (DD Form 1610 (Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DOD personnel). (9)  Signing and processing DA Form1059 (Academic Evaluation Reports). (10)  Annual training requirements. f.  Budget.  The SON budget for each Theater Army is programmed for and provided by DCS, G  3/5/7 (DAMO  SSR). Each Theater Army coordinates directly with DCS, G  3/5/7 and the Army International Affairs Division for administration of these funds. Each Theater Army manages and executes their separate SON budget to support student travel and other program requirements. The Theater Army SON administrator acts as approval authority and point of contact for student-related travel and other expenses. g.  Language incentive pay.  SON participants attending a school conducted in a foreign language are eligible to receive foreign language incentive pay, provided they have taken the foreign language test within the preceding 12 months for the language in which they are studying and meet foreign language proficiency pay requirements of AR 11  6. Participants must meet the minimum language requirements outlined in the annual HRC message announcing ILE/SSC selection boards. h.  Follow-on assignments.  In order to maximum benefits from the program and enhance the Army Security Coopera-tion Strategy and Campaign Support Plan, graduates of the SON program will serve a 24 month utilization tour at the brigade, division, corps, Theater Army, or CCMD (Joint) level in support of the theater area of responsibility where they attended school. Alternatively, an assignment with the Regionally Aligned Forces element slated for operations in support of the theater area of responsibility where they attended school, fulfills the 24 month utilization tour requirement. HRC will ensure follow-on assignments also take into account Soldiers professional development objectives and career time-lines. In cases where an immediate utilization tour is not possible, HRC will make every effort to meet the requirement within 5 years of graduation from the SON assignment. 3  50.  General officer education and training The scope of responsibilities incurred in general officer positions requires post-SSC education, training and individualized professional development incorporated and administered by the Army Strategic Education Program (ASEP). ASEP has four components: mandatory education, required education by position and/or assignment, executive development, and optional education and training. They are described below: a.  The mandatory education component provides PME to develop general officers with expertise and knowledge ap-propriate to the grade to which they will ascend and when appropriate in accordance with the requirements of the duty/ occupational specialty to which they are assigned. The education includes: (1)  The Army Strategic Education Program Basic Course.  A mandatory course for all brigadier generals or colonels selected for promotion to brigadier general that assists in the transition to generalship by ensuring each graduate under-stands their new executive leadership role in the Army and Joint Force. Each officer is knowledgeable of the strategic environment; comprehends the challenges and opportunities inherent to the national strategic environment. Prepares each officer and their family for strategic service at the national level. (a)  Spouses are invited to attend training with the General officer and receive training specific to their new role, in accordance with SECARMYs travel policy. (b)  The Senior Executive Diversity Awareness Training Course. A mandatory course for all officers selected for pro-motion to brigadier general and is offered in conjunction with the ASEP-Basic course. This training should be completed within one year of confirmation of selection to brigadier general for Regular Army and within two years for reserve com-ponent. (2)  The Army Strategic Education Program - Advanced Course (ASEP  A).  A mandatory course for all major generals or brigadier generals selected for promotion to major general. This course is the second component of the ASEP. It con-tinues the education of Army senior leaders to be strategic leaders who understand the complexities and responsibilities in their new roles supporting National Security Policies and leading major Army formations. The officer will formulate and/ or refine the personal and professional skills required to create impactful interactions with political leaders, the Joint com-munity, media, business, think tanks, Congress and academia. (3)  The Army Strategic Education Program - Senior Course (ASEP  S).  A mandatory course for all general officers appointed and confirmed to the rank of lieutenant general. This course continues the development and education of Army strategic leaders to lead in critical duty assignments at the national level in the Army and/ or Joint force. The course aids each officer in synthesizing the learning outcomes from the previous ASEP courses through a focused, selective academic review, and selected engagements with senior military officials, national security stakeholders/ thinkers, interagency coun-terparts, and non-governmental thought leaders. The course generates an individual, strategic service preparation oppor-tunity, and designed to complement the officers profession and personal experiences. (4)  The Army Strategic Education Program Transition Course (ASEP  T).  The ASEP  T course is a mandatory 1 week course. Statute requires all general officers to attend before retirement and attendance is expected within one year of the expected retirement. Attending the course is not an indication of pending retirement. The course prepares general officers for transition into the private sector. It provides general officers with comprehensive training on determining their private sector objectives and developing the strategies, tools, and skills to achieve those objectives. Spouses are invited and en-couraged to attend in accordance with SECARMYs travel policy. b.  Joint courses are offered to the general officer population through various organizations and cover a number of topics relevant to operating as part of the Joint Force. (1)  The CAPSTONE course is congressionally mandated for all Regular Army brigadier generals and must be com-pleted within approximately 2 years of Senate confirmation of selection for promotion to brigadier general. The National Defense University conducts this course which provides a clear perspective of Joint and combined operations. Students travel to unified, specified and combined commands worldwide. (2)  The Pinnacle Course.  A mandatory course for lieutenant generals in certain billets designated by The Joint Staff. This course prepares senior general officers for senior political-military positions and command of Joint and coalition forces at the highest level. The course also sensitizes general officers to the environment in which they are about to enter and foster an understanding of national and international objectives, policies and guidance. (3)  The Joint Flag Officer Warfighting Course.  This course is an intermediate general/flag officer level professional continuing education course that prepares attendees for theater-level combat leadership responsibilities. A mandatory course for division commanders, combat arms center commanders and combat training center commanders within six months of taking command. The course is tailored to provide potential theater CCDRs, Service component and Joint task force commanders with a broad perspective of the strategic and operational levels of war. (4)  The Combined/Joint Forces Land Component Commander Course.  A course for division commanders and/or gen-eral officers who will likely serve as land component commanders or select support level commanders. This course pre-pares attendees to function effectively as Land Component Commanders. It prepares general officers to function in the Joint, combined/multinational and interagency environment, formulate and execute land-centric operations that provide CCDRs the capabilities to achieve rapid, decisive and sustained land dominance that is critical to effective national policy accomplishment. (5)  The Joint Forces Air Component Commanders Course.  The target audience is general officers in the branches of aviation, field artillery and air defense. This course prepares potential Joint Forces Air Component Commanders for re-sponsibilities of theater-level combat leadership by studying warfighting, military doctrine and the application of unified, Joint and combined combat forces with particular emphasis on air and space power employment in theater- level opera-tions. It also focuses on vertical and horizontal integration of air and ground assets while discussing ways to shape future operations on the battlefield. (6)  The Joint Forces Maritime Component Commander Course.  As the senior executive component of the Navys Professional Military Education continuum, and part of the senior Joint PME continuum, this course addresses the practical challenges confronting the maritime operational commander. It also considers existing maritime component concepts and doctrine, operational-level capabilities, command and control processes and applications, and the considerations and ex-pectations of Joint Forces Commanders (JFCs) and supporting functional component commanders. (7)  The Joint Forces Special Operations Component Commander Course.  The target audience is general officers with special operations forces experience. This course prepares general officers to function effectively as special operations component commanders in JIIM environments. It also increases non-special operations forces general officers under-standing of the complexities of special operations forces employment in, combined and interagency operations to accom-plish strategic objectives. (8)  The Senior Joint Information Operations Application Course.  The target audience is general officers in Fires, Ef-fects and Operational Support functional categories. This course prepares attendees to develop information operations into a warfighting core military competency that will enable CCDRs to target adversary decision-making while protection our own forces. (9)  Cyber Operations Executive Course.  The COEC course is designed for general officers in operational or operation support assignments. Conducted twice annually, in April as COEC-Junior for BG/MGs and in November as COEC-Senior for LTG/GENs, the course provides senior leadership and understanding of the network, its vulnerabilities, threat activity, and ongoing efforts to protect and operate within it as the shape cyber-related Doctrine, Organization, Training, Material, Leadership and education, Personnel and Facilities (DOTMLPF). c.  Positional and selective courses are offered to provide General Officers education opportunities focused at specific assignment requirements or as officers are selected for attendance by the Chief of Staff of the Army for further leadership development. These programs includes: (1)  The Leadership at the Peak Course.  This course provides select generals officers with a comfortable, secure envi-ronment to evaluate their leadership style and effectiveness and focus on the high-level challenges unique to these senior leaders. (2)  Harvard Kennedy School Executive Education Course.  The Harvard Kennedy School Executive Education course is a 1 week course for select general officers. It offers a global curriculum focused on generating powerful ideas to help people, communities and nations solve the worlds most pressing public problems. Over 35 programs address critical subjects from crisis leadership and decision making to economic development and national security. (3)  Harvard cybersecurity  : The Intersection of Policy and Technology course. The Intersection of Policy and Tech-nology course is a 1 week course for select general officers. It will equip practitioners with the tools necessary to concep-tualize the cyber issue, develop policies appropriate for its resolution, and frame strategy and action to address the emerging threats. (4)  JP Morgan Chase CEO Boot camp.  The CEO Boot camp is a 3 day course for select general officers. Leadership Edge is JP Morgan Chases firm wide suite of leadership and management training programs designed to help outstanding leaders at all levels of management across each line of business, function and region. Located at West Point, the program provides both internal challenges and external pressures faced by executives running large business or functions. (5)  The Systems Acquisition Management Course (ACQ 404).  The course is mandated by regulatory requirements for acquisition general officers and general officers assigned to duty positions with acquisition responsibilities and authorities. This course focuses on understanding the perspectives of key government and defense industry decision makers. It includes discussion of topics affecting the defense systems acquisition environment. (6)  Senior International Defense Management Course.  The course is a 4 week course, offered once annually and re-quires coordination with the Naval Post Graduate School through the ASEP program office to acquire a seat. The course is offered through the Defense Resource Management Institute (DRMI) in Monterrey, CA. SIDMIC is a general officer level course that enables participants to evaluate relationships between national security strategy and objectives of com-peting programs in an environment with limited resources. SIDMIC provides an exceptional opportunity for networking with peers from sister services and international partner nations. (7)  The Joint Senior Reserve Component Officer Course.  This course is offered at the USAWC at Carlisle Barracks, PA for RC general officers who are unable to attend the ASEP  A course. The course provides for a week long executive education course based on the ASEP  A curriculum. The courses focal point is those issues affecting the Total Army and the unique challenges that confront the US Army Reserve and US Army National Guard senior leadership. It also provides them an opportunity to participate in an executive wellness program. (8)  The Level IV AT Executive Seminar.  The target audience is major generals and below with AT program policy, planning and operations responsibilities. This seminar provides attendees with focused updates, detailed briefings and AT consequence management war games. (9)  The Force Integration Course for Senior Leaders (FICSL).  The Force Integration course is designed for general officers with assignments to the Pentagon and/or within the generating force to familiarize attendees with the how to and why of determining force requirements and capabilities. It examines alternative means of resourcing requirements in order to accomplish Army functions and missions as related to their executive-level management positions within the Joint/com-bined arena. (10)  The LOGTECH Program for Executives in Logistics and Technology Course (LOGTECH).  An optional course for logistics and acquisition general officers or general officers with supply chain management responsibilities. This course develops and improves attendees knowledge, decision-making processes, collaborative skills and networking opportuni-ties. It also explores the environments within which logistics leaders will have to implement logistics technologies from the strategic and operational perspectives. (11)  Army Strategic Education Program  Command Course (ASEP  C).  ASEP  C is designed to educate select Gen-eral Officers across all compos and enhance their leadership capabilities and competencies prior to assuming select 1- and 2-star level command assignments. The course compliments Army and Joint GO educational courses by focusing on Army doctrinal concepts, systems, and capabilities that enhance unit readiness and better prepare commanders to conduct Unified Land Operations. The course is conducted at the Combined Arms Center, Fort Leavenworth, KS. Section V Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development System Guidance 3  51.  Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development System The NCOPDS establishes an organizational framework to develop the next generation of competent and committed NCOs. Noncommissioned Officers develop as leaders through their career through progressive and sequential processes which incorporate training, education, and experience across three learning domains (institutional, operational, and self-develop-ment) a.  Learning environment: Optimize effectiveness of face-to-face learning within NCO training and education; provide continuous access to job-specific learning content; leverage educational technologies to engage Soldiers, while meeting General Learning Outcomes; and provide rigorous learning experiences across the three learning domains b.  Systematic approach to self-awareness: Provide tools for individual, supervisory, and organizational oversight of career learning needs; assess the quality of professional military education (PME) experiences before, during, and after courses; develop self-assessments for critical skills competencies within courses; include English writing assessments; create dashboards for instructors to track progress in the classroom; design an enhanced job book, which allows first line supervisors and commanders to track and manage their Soldiers training and education c.  Career progression model: Synchronize and integrate the NCO career model to include self-development, special schools/assignments, Senior Enlisted Joint Professional Military Education (SEJPME) courses, and broadening assign-ments. d.  NCOPDS will focus on the following objectives: (1)  Provide the Army an adaptable and resilient NCO corps capable of training and leading soldiers in uncertain and complex unified action operating environments. (2)  Improve the professionalism of the NCO corps. (3)  Improve the training and education of the NCO corps in order to sustain leader development, support expansibility, and capacity building of the NCOPDS. (4)  Provide challenging training, education, and practical experiences resulting in early technical mastery, increased tactical skills, adaptability, innovation, agility, and mastery of the NCO general learning outcomes. (5)  Articulate learning responsibilities and requirements across three domains and integrate them into a synchronized, effective, and efficient professional development system. (6)  Improve professional development models and learning curriculums to allow Soldiers and leaders to assess leader development progress, track learning events, create goals, and certify professionals. (7)  Identify and develop NCO to serve at operational and strategic levels. (8)  PME completion and other required training and education will be incorporated into an individual's records, for visibility by unit leaders. Assessment tools will measure NCO general learning outcomes and competencies to enable the identification of the best talent and encourage self-improvement. (9)  Leaders will track Soldier training and individual task completion to certify proficiency in technical, tactical, and leadership skills. Soldiers/leaders will track certification and document acquired skills for Army Civilian credentials. 3  52.  Noncommissioned Officer Education System a.  The goal of NCO training and the NCOES is to prepare noncommissioned officers to lead and train Soldiers who work and fight under their supervision, and to assist their leaders in executing unit missions. b.  NCOES is linked to promotion to SGT, SSG, SFC, MSG, and SGM. This ensures NCOs have the appropriate skills and knowledge required before assuming the duties and responsibilities of the next higher grade. c.  The NCOES provides noncommissioned officers with progressive and sequential leader, technical, and tactical train-ing relevant to the duties, responsibilities, and missions they will perform in operational units after graduation. Training is based on the tasks, supporting skills and knowledge, attitudes, and experience needed. d.  The NCOES includes: (1)  Basic, branch-immaterial, leadership training, provided by the BLC. (2)  Leader training and basic branch-specific, squad and platoon-level training, provided by the ALC. (3)  Advanced, branch-specific, platoon and company-level training, provided by the SLC. (4)  Senior-level, branch-immaterial, troop and staff-level training, provided by the MLC. (5)  Senior-level, branch-immaterial, staff education, capstone of enlisted training, provided by the SMC. (6)  Strategic-level, branch-immaterial education provided by the Nominative Leaders Course (NLC). 3  53.  Noncommissioned Officer Education System requirements a.  Commandants and commanders of NCOES training schools will enforce the following attendance and completion requirements: (1)  The CNGB and CAR may request waiver authority for Soldiers in MOSs that do not have an approved Total Army Training System POI that may be executed using the RC training model of two plus two. Each request must provide justification and analysis of risk and be forwarded through the appropriate proponent to TRADOC G  3/5/7 Institute of Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development for staffing, adjudication of issues and approval/disapproval by the TRADOC G  3/5/7. (a)  Waiver requests will be initiated using the DA Form 4187 and a memorandum signed by the first O  6 within the Soldiers chain of command. Additionally, proof of the appropriate level of structured self-development (SSD) completion and a valid APFT scorecard will be submitted through the first O  6 commander within the Soldiers chain of command to the appropriate waiver approving authority. (b)  ARNG Soldiers must submit requests to DARNG  (NGB  ARH  S), 111 South George Mason Drive, Arlington, VA 22202. (c)  USAR Soldiers must submit requests to Commander, USARC (AFRC  TRI), 4710 Knox St., Fort Bragg, NC 28310  5010. (2)  ARNG Soldiers have up to 24 months (per course) to complete BLC, ALC, and SLC. Should the PME course have more than two phases of training, the Soldier will have an additional 12 months for each subsequent phase. These estab-lished timelines may be extended if the delay is through no fault of the Soldier. The Soldier's commander must submit a memorandum requesting an extension, with justification for the delay, through command channels to the first general officer in the Soldier's chain of command. The general officer may allow up to an additional 12 months. (3)  All training required by a reclassification action will be accomplished in accordance with AR 614  200 and AR 611  1. (4)  Until proponents develop senior-level MOS transition courses, existing procedures for reclassification of senior- level Soldiers will continue to be followed. Upon development of senior-level MOS transition courses, completion of the appropriate senior-level transition course will be mandatory before the award of a new MOS above skill level 10, unless alternate methods are authorized by AR 611  1. b.  School commandants and commanders will complete DA Form 1059 for all students in accordance with AR 623  3. c.  Promotion points for completion of NCOES courses will be awarded in accordance with AR 600  8  19. 3  54.  Structured self-development a.  The intent of structured self-development (SSD) is to bridge the operational and institutional domains and set the conditions for continuous growth. SSD will ensure learning is continuous and enduring, not sporadic and transitory. SSD is required learning that continues throughout a career and that is closely linked to, and synchronized with, classroom and experiential learning. SSD sets the conditions for continuous growth both as a Soldier and a leader. SSD is both an indi-vidual and first line leader responsibility executed at the individuals pace but under the supervision of the first line leader. SSD is a centrally managed set of specified content that must be completed within specified career points as a prerequisite for attendance at NCOES courses. SSD builds knowledge and skills through a defined sequence of learning approaches involving formal education and experiential learning. The implementation of SSD will improve Army readiness by inte-grating self-development into a life-long learning approach that fosters continuous learning. SSD is a prerequisite for attendance to NCOES courses. b.  Soldiers become eligible for SSD upon completion of IMT, and subsequent completion of the BLC, ALC, SLC, MLC and the SMC. Soldiers will be notified of enrollment via an email from ATRRS to their enterprise email address alerting them that they have been registered for SSD; the email will contain the URL of the Website for the SSD courseware. The ALMS will generate DA Form 87 (Certificate of Training) for all SSD phases and provide completion notification to ATRRS. The ATRRS will update personnel records as required. The completion of all learning events is mandatory prior to obtaining the certificate of training for Soldiers enrolled in SSD. Noncommissioned officers are re-sponsible for ensuring their enterprise e-mail accounts are updated in ATRRS. (1)  After IMT, Soldiers are automatically enrolled into SSD 1 which is a prerequisite to attend BLC. BLC attendance is limited to Soldiers in the rank of SPC/CPL (E4) or higher. (2)  Soldiers are automatically enrolled into SSD 2 upon completion of BLC and promotion to Sergeant (E5). SSD 2 completion is a prerequisite to attend ALC. (3)  Soldiers are automatically enrolled into SSD 3 upon completion of ALC and promotion to Staff Sergeant (E6). SSD 3 completion is a prerequisite to attend SLC. (4)  Soldiers are automatically enrolled into SSD 4 upon completion of SLC and promotion to Sergeant First Class (E7). SSD 4 completion is a prerequisite to attend MLC. (5)  Soldiers are automatically enrolled into SSD 5 upon completion of MLC and promotion to Master Sergeant (E8). SSD 5 completion is a prerequisite to attend SMC. Once implemented, SSD 6 is a prerequisite for nominative and joint assignments. c.  Successful completion of a prerequisite level of SSD is required prior to making a reservation in ATRRS for the corresponding level of NCOES. d.  SGT, SGT(P), and anyone promoted to SSG on or after 1 June 2014 must complete ALC CC or SSD 2 and ALC technical residence phase in order to (IOT) receive ALC course completion credit. e.  Grandfather provision: prior to 1 June 2014, any SSG who has completed all technical resident phase(s) of ALC are not required to complete SSD 2. Instead, these Soldiers will be considered to have met the training requirements (consistent with their current level of resident NCOES training) and will be eligible for enrollment into SSD 3. f.  Noncommissioned officers with a MOS that does not have an approved Total Army School System POI for the technical resident phase ALC and have completed ALC  CC or SSD 2 will be granted constructive credit for ALC. A constructive credit packet must be submitted in alignment with paragraph 3  20 Course Credit. These Soldiers will be automatically enrolled into SSD 3 upon approval of constructive credit and promotion to SSG.  g.  RA and USAR: (1)  To support synchronization of the NCOES with promotions (deliberate, continuous, sequential and progressive), completion of SSD 2 is required before a SGT attains eligibility for recommendation for promotion to SSG (integration onto the SSG recommended list). Promotable sergeants (already integrated onto the SSG promotion list) must complete SSD 2 or ALC CC IOT retain their promotion list status. Failure to complete the minimum requirement of SSD 2 will result in automatic promotion list removal. (2)  SSD is formally linked to promotion eligibility as follows: (a)  SSD 1: Required before recommendation to SGT. (b)  SSD 2: Required before recommendation to SSG. (c)  SSD 3: Required before consideration for selection to SFC. (d)  SSD 4: Required before consideration for selection to MSG. (e)  SSD 5: Completion of SSD 5 is an additional eligibility requirement for CSM/SGM with professional development proficiency code of 7C and 7S to compete for potential nomination and subsequent consideration to serve as a CSM or SGM at the one/two-star general officer or equivalent SES. (3)  The Army will not award promotion points to Soldiers for the completion of any SSD course (all levels). h.  The chain of command, NCOs and Soldiers have a shared responsibility to ensure that SSD is completed within the time prescribed in accordance with ALMS instructions. SSD is both an individual and first line leader responsibility exe-cuted at the individual's pace but under the supervision of the first line leader. 3  55.  Noncommissioned officer academies a.  The NCOAs provide training at the appropriate skill level to prepare NCOs for future operational assignments. b.  The NCOAs will be established in accordance with CG, TRADOC and DCS, G  3/5/7 policies. c.  The designation of NCOAs and the division of the training base into NCOA geographic regions are discussed in appendix E. d.  Proponent schools participate in the accreditation process of the technical track training for their respective ALC and SLC. Final accreditation is determined  by the TRADOC QAO and approved by CG, TRADOC. e.  Students attending NCOA courses will be placed in a live-in learning environment during the resident portion of the course. Students will maintain high standards of military courtesy, conduct, and physical readiness. f.  All ARNG and USARC NCOAs teach and/or mentor BLC, and functional courses. RC TASS institutions teach MOS-specific courses, including ALC and SLC (Technical Track Training). All courses must be approved, validated and as-sessed by the appropriate branch proponent-school for inclusion in the TRADOC QAO accreditation of the learning insti-tution, school or center. (1)  ALC and SLC Technical Track Training will be conducted via DL, IDT, ADT, or annual training modes as author-ized by applicable POI. (2)  The ALC and SLC technical phases are conducted at selected TASS institutions. g.  NCOA courses do not award an MOS, ASI, or higher skill level. 3  56.  Basic Leader Course a.  The BLC is a branch-immaterial course that provides basic leadership training. The BLC provides Soldiers an op-portunity to acquire the leader skills, knowledge, and experience needed to lead team-level size units. It is the foundation for further training and development. Scope of tasks/competencies addressed in BLC will provide both the team and squad-level perspective, where appropriate, and build upon experience gained in previous training and operational assignments. b.  Soldiers who qualify for BLC are placed on an OML by the unit commander as follows: (1)  First priority.  SPC/CPL promotable. These Soldiers are prioritized with in this category as follows: (a)  SPC/CPL promotable who have met the cut-off score. (b)  SPC/CPL promotable in MOSs which would have had additional promotions if more promotable SPC/CPL had been available and identified as STAR MOS by monthly HRC promotion cut-off memorandum. (c)  SPC/CPL promotable in other MOS serving in an authorized NCO position based on the highest number of promo-tion points. (d)  All other SPC/CPL promotable on a recommended list based on the highest number of promotion points. (2)  Second priority.  SPC/CPL in leadership positions. In order to fill all BLC training seats, non-promotable SPC / CPL with demonstrated leadership potential may attend BLC only when all higher OML categories are exhausted. c.  ACOMs, ASCCs, USARC, and NGB establish a quota management plan to support BLC and ensure attendance of fully qualified Soldiers. In order to be consistent with established Army training priorities, commands will manage quotas to ensure that all Soldiers in a higher OML category attend BLC prior to Soldiers with lower priority. Only Soldiers who have completed BLC are fully eligible for promotion to SGT (see AR 600  8  19). 3  57.  Advanced Leader Course a.  The ALC is a branch-specific course that provides Soldiers selected for promotion to SSG with an opportunity to enhance leadership, technical skill, tactical expertise and experience needed to lead squad-size units. Training builds on experience gained in previous training and operational assignments. Branch schools and selected training battalions con-duct this course in a live-in learning environment. Only Soldiers who have completed ALC are fully eligible for promotion to SSG (see AR 600  8  19). b.  Content for the ALC include materials for success at both the squad and platoon level. The scope of tasks/competen-cies addressed in ALC provides both the squad and platoon level perspective, where appropriate, and build upon experience gained in previous training and operational assignments. 3  58.  Senior Leader Course The SLC is a branch-specific course that provides an opportunity for Soldiers selected for promotion to SFC to acquire the leader, technical, and tactical skills, knowledge, and experience needed to lead platoon-size units. Training builds on ex-perience gained in previous training and operational assignments. Branch schools and selected training battalions conduct this course in a live-in learning environment, where possible. Content for the SLC includes materials required for success at both the platoon and company level. The scope of tasks and/or competencies addressed in SLC will provide both the platoon and company level perspective, where appropriate, and build upon experience gained in previous training and operational assignments. Only Soldiers who have completed SLC are fully eligible for promotion to SFC (see AR 600  8  19). 3  59.  Master Leader Course The MLC, once fully implemented, will be a branch-immaterial course that provides an opportunity for Soldiers selected for promotion to master sergeant (MSG) to acquire the leader skills required for success at both troop and staff assignments throughout the defense establishment. Areas of study include: public speaking, other services capabilities, mission com-mand, understanding and applying military decision making process, decisive action, organizational management, inter-agency capabilities and multinational considerations. This course will be delivered in a DL resident school environment. Once announced, only Soldiers who have completed MLC are fully eligible for promotion to MSG (see AR 600  8  19). 3  60.  Sergeants Major Leader Course a.  The SMC is the capstone of enlisted education. MSGs are prepared for both troop and staff assignments throughout the defense establishment. The SMC is task based and performance oriented. Areas of study include leadership, combat operations, sustainment operations, team building, communication skills, training management, and professional develop-ment electives. Successful completion of the SMC is a requirement for promotion to SGM and appointment to CSM. ARNG Soldiers selected for promotion to SGM who are not graduates of the USASMC will be conditionally promoted upon confirmed reservation in ATRRS for SMC. NCOs selected by a CSM/Sergeant Major/Sergeants Major Course Se-lection Board are required to attend either the resident or non-resident SMC under the current Select/Train/Educate/Pro-mote concept. b.  Soldiers incur a 24-month service-remaining requirement upon graduation from the resident course or 6-month ser-vice remaining requirement for the non-resident corresponding course studies program. c.  All ARNG personnel apply to and are selected by a board convened by the DARNG. Distance learning and blended courses do not require board selection. Only resident ARNG MSG/SGMs go through a board process. d.  All USAR TPU personnel apply to and are selected by a board convened by the CAR. NCOs (except AGR personnel) will use DA Form 1058  R (Application for Active Duty for Training, Active duty for Special Work, Temporary Tour of Active Duty, and Annual Training for Soldiers of the Army National Guard and U.S. Army Reserve) to apply for the resident course. e.  The SMC blended education (non-resident course) is available only to Soldiers who are selected by the SGM Training and Selection Board. Request for exceptions to policy will be considered for compassionate or medical reasons. f.  The resident phase of SMC blended education (non-resident course) is outlined below: (1)  The resident phase of blended education will be conducted ten times per year. (2)  A student must complete all 6 corresponding study modules of the course approximately 90 days before the planned resident phase. This will allow sufficient time for administrative processing. (3)  HRC will provide instructions concerning attendance in coordination with DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate) for all active duty NCOs eligible to attend the resident phase. Instructions concerning attendance of ARNG and USAR per-sonnel in the resident phase are announced by DARNG and CAR on notification by the Commandant, USASMA of stu-dents eligibility to attend. (4)  NCOs who decline attendance to the resident SMC are not eligible for the blended education (non-residence course). g.  Procedures for awarding credits are shown below: (1)  Upon completion of the blended education (non-resident course), the student will be awarded a diploma by the Commandant, USASMA. The Soldiers DA Form 2  1 (Personnel Qualification Record) and DA Form 4037 (Officer Record Brief) will be updated to reflect NCOPDS code A. (2)  Graduates of the blended education (non-resident course) are given equal consideration with resident course grad-uates in all personnel management actions. (3)  The American Council on Educations Center for Adult Learning and Educational Credentials recommends that graduates of the Corresponding Studies Program receive 6 semester hours baccalaureate degree college credit in manage-ment, psychology or sociology, and international relations, for a total of 18 semester hours. h.  International students may be awarded diplomas or certificates in accordance with AR 12  15. i.  The DCS, G  3/5/7 will allocate quotas to ACOM commanders, DARNG, and CAR for Army students to attend USAF or USN Senior Non-Commissioned Officers Academies. The HRC, NGB and CAR will identify selectees in the rank of SFC and MSG for attendance to sister service NCO Academies for the purpose of inter-Service familiarization and broadening experience. Special consideration will be given to those NCOs selected for Joint assignments. Individual re-quests to attend one of the sister service academies are not authorized. Senior NCOs will not receive equivalent credit for completion of the SMC as a result of successful completion of the USAF or USN Senior NCO Enlisted Academies. 3  61.  Nominative Leader Course The Nominative Leader Course is a strategic level Army course for CSMs and SGMs serving at the nominative sergeant major level. The NLC requirements will be included in the next publication of AR 614  200. a.  Command Sergeants Major and Sergeants Majors selected for the 1-star and 2-star command-level nominative as-signment pool will attend the NLC after their nominative pool selection is validated and they have been selected for a specific nominative position. b.  Attendance at the NLC is mandatory for validated RA nominative pool selectees after they have been selected for a specific nominative position. Non-RA CSMs and SGMs in nominative assignments will attend on a space and funding available status. c.  The NLC is a two week strategic leader development course conducted by the USAAWC Center for Strategic Lead-ership at Carlisle Barracks, PA. This course is designed to prepare graduates to immediately serve as valued senior enlisted advisors in their initial U.S. Army nominative assignments, equipped with the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to provide quality advice that helps their leaders and their organizations to operate more effectively. d.  Scheduling for all NLC attendees is through the Nominative Sergeants Major Program Office. 3  62.  Command Sergeant Major Brigade and Battalion Pre-Command Course and Command Sergeant Major Development Program a.  Command sergeants major will attend the Brigade and Battalion Pre-Command Courses per table 3  3. Attendance at the Brigade and Battalion CSM Development Program is mandatory for RA/AGR Brigade and Battalion CSM selectees. RC Brigade and Battalion CSM selectees assigned to Troop Program Units will attend on a space and funding available status. b.  SCP conducts two follow-on courses for CSM selects at Fort Leavenworth, KS. CSMDP  BDE and CSMDP  BN focus on the unique nature of brigade verse battalion size units. Each course is to prepare Command Sergeants Major (CSM) selects for their assignment. The courses provides an in-depth examination of the responsibilities of the CSM as the senior NCO of their unit charged with carrying out command policies, maintaining standards and discipline, and ad-vising the commander on the performance, training, appearance, and conduct of enlisted Soldiers in the brigade. Emphasis is on leader development, developing key organizational relationships, building high performing teams, ensuring unit read-iness, and topics of special interest as determined by the Sergeant Major of the Army and the Chief of Staff of the Army. The courses provide a unique opportunity for the CSM to expand upon their personal awareness, strengthen their under-standing of teaming, and reflect and expand on their individual leadership competencies. c.  Spouses of battalion and brigade CSMs are authorized to attend the Command Team Spouse Development Program in accordance with DCS, G  3/5/7 guidance, conducted concurrently with the Pre-Command/CSM Courses and per table 3  3. USAR AGR and TPU BN/BDE commanders and CSMs will attend a USAR specific course preceding or following the RA Phase I course. d.   Scheduling for both RA and AGR CSMs is through the Sergeants Major Management Division, HRC. See paragraph 3-41 for additional information.  Section VI Military Functional, Specialty and Other Training 3  63.  Military functional area and skill training a.  Functional courses prepare Army personnel for assignment to special units or specific duty positions and increase their value to the Army. These courses provide Soldiers an opportunity to acquire duty position-required skills and knowledge that cannot be obtained by attending other institutional courses. The courses may provide training, which qual-ifies Soldiers for award of an ASI, SQI, or SI. The ATRRS course catalog has a complete listing of functional and skill-qualification courses. b.  The CG, HRC, will assign RA personnel other than chaplains, AMEDD, and JAGC personnel to attend specialty courses in a TDY en route in conjunction with a PCS or officer accessions. Courses or a combination of courses totaling 20 weeks at one location are attended on a PCS status. Prerequisite qualifications are developed by each proponent with training responsibilities and are specified in the ATRRS course catalog (www.atrrs.army.mil). c.  ACOMS, ASCCs, and DRUs will assign RA personnel to attend specialty courses in a TDY and return status. d.  The Defense Acquisition University is a corporate university that provides mandatory training for all Acquisition, Technology and Logistics (AT&L) workforce members. The Defense Acquisition University also provides a full range of basic, intermediate, and advanced curriculum training, as well as assignment-specific and continuous learning opportuni-ties to support the goals and professional development of the DOD AT&L workforce. 3  64.  Ranger training a.  Ranger training, conducted by the USAIS, Fort Benning, GA, further develops leadership and combat arms-related skills of Soldiers eligible for assignment to units that primarily engage in close-combat, direct-fire battle. The course requires Soldiers to perform individual and collective tasks and missions in a realistic environment under mental and physical stress that approaches that found in combat. Training emphasizes the development of individual abilities to apply established doctrine and to plan and conduct infantry, airborne, air assault, and amphibious squad and platoon operations. Officer graduates will receive an SI of 3R for ranger and 5S for airborne ranger training. Enlisted graduates will receive an SQI of G for ranger and V for ranger parachutist training. b.  Enlisted Soldiers in the following MOS may volunteer for ranger training: (1)  11B - Infantryman. (2)  11C - Indirect fire infantryman. (3)  12B - Combat engineer, in companies that directly support infantry battalions. (4)  13F - Fire support sergeant, associated in direct support to infantry battalions. (5)  18-series- Special Forces. (6)  19D - Cavalry scout. (7)  19K - Armor crewman. (8)  14S - Stinger sergeant, in direct support of infantry battalions. c.  Enlisted Soldiers, of any MOS or specialty, assigned to ranger-coded positions in the 75th Ranger Regiment or Ranger Training Brigade must complete ranger training. d.  Ranger training is available, on a voluntary basis, for commissioned officers in the following career management fields: (1)  11A - Infantry officer. (2)  19A  Armor officers (includes 19C positions). (3)  13A - Battalion and company fire support officers in direct support of infantry battalions. (4)  18A - Special Forces officers. (5)  12A - Combat engineer officers in companies in direct support of infantry battalions. (6)  14A - Short range air defense officers in direct support of infantry battalions. e.  Officers, of any branch or specialty, assigned to ranger-coded positions in the 75th Ranger Regiment or Ranger Training Brigade, must complete ranger training. f.  Ranger-coding is limited to selected positions in the following units and schools: (1)  Ranger regiment positions. (2)  Positions in infantry battalions, companies, platoons, and long-range surveillance units. (3)  Selected USAIS instructors. (4)  Selected CTC observer-controllers. (5)  Selected instructors from the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation. (6)  Positions in cavalry scout troops assigned to combined arms battalions, reconnaissance squadrons, and armored cavalry regiments. (7)  Positions in Special Forces Operational Detachments A, Special Operations Teams A, and Special Operations Chemical Reconnaissance Detachments. (8)  Positions in engineer companies in direct support of infantry battalions. (9)  Selected positions in air defense batteries in direct support of infantry battalions. g.  Volunteers for ranger training who are not in ranger-coded positions will only be accepted on a space-available basis after all personnel who require the training have been scheduled. h.  Soldiers are no longer required to be assigned against ranger authorizations in order to attend ranger training. The intended goal of this policy is to increase ranger-qualified Soldiers assigned throughout the Army. Enlisted and officer personnel assigned to another MOS/branch or specialty not listed in paragraph  357b and 357d  will be assigned by HRC.  i.  ROTC and USMA cadets are not authorized to attend ranger training. 3  65.  Airborne training a.  Voluntary airborne training is conducted at the USAIS. The training qualifies Soldiers in the use of the parachute as a means of deployment. Training takes place in a mentally and physically demanding environment. Airborne training develops leadership skills, self-confidence, and an aggressive spirit. Graduates will receive an SQI of P for enlisted Soldiers and an SI of 5P for officers. b.  Enlisted Soldiers who hold an MOS authorized in an airborne unit may volunteer for airborne training. c.  Officers of all components, branches, and functional areas may volunteer for airborne training. d.  Limited availability of training spaces makes attendance highly competitive. Space allocations are based on the per-centage of authorized parachute positions, by specialty, Armywide. e.  IRR volunteers will be selected for airborne training by the Commander, HRC, to meet mobilization requirements. f.  Airborne training priorities are: (1)  Priority 1.  RA/RC Army, USN, USMC, and USAF personnel assigned to Airborne, Ranger, or Special Operations Force units. Also included are foreign military personnel regardless of  assignment. (2)  Priority 2.  Soldiers under airborne contract (enlistment incentive) not assigned to Airborne, Ranger, or Special Operations Force units. (3)  Priority 3.  RA Airborne volunteers. (4)  Priority 4.  All other Army (RA, ARNG, USAR). (5)  Priority 5.  Service academy and ROTC cadets with service commitments. (6)  All other services. 3  66.  Equal opportunity management training The Defense Equal Opportunity Management Institute at Patrick Air Force Base, FL, conducts the Equal Opportunity Training Program and Equal Opportunity Staff Course. Soldiers assigned to Equal Opportunity advisor positions are pro-vided necessary skills and knowledge to assist commanders in increasing unit effectiveness and efficiency through im-proved human relations and equal treatment. Personnel who successfully complete this training are awarded the appropriate ASI and SQI. 3  67.  Battle Staff Noncommissioned Officer Course The Battle Staff Noncommissioned Officers Course is a branch-immaterial functional course for SGT through SGM se-lected for staff assignments. The course provides technical and tactical training that is relevant to missions, duties, and responsibilities assigned to staff members in battalion and higher units. Graduates of the Battle Staff Noncommissioned Officers Course are identified by award of ASI 2S. Attendance is mandatory for those Soldiers assigned to positions coded ASI 2S. RA and RC commanders of Soldiers not assigned to ASI 2S positions may request course attendance on a space available basis. 3  68.  Advanced Strategic Planning and Policy Program a.  The Advanced Strategic Planning and Policy Program (ASP3) is a multi-year program that develops field grade officers, including former battalion commanders, as strategic planners and as future senior leaders through a combination of practical experience, professional military education, and a doctorate from a civilian university in a strategy related field of study. Once selected for the program, officers apply to doctoral programs at respected American universities and spend up to two years in graduate school satisfying all course and exam requirements leading to acceptance as a doctoral candi-date. During these years, officers will also attend PME at SAMS studying history, strategic theory, and the practice of strategic planning. Officers will then serve a developmental assignment in a strategic planning position. Those officers selected for battalion or brigade command will be afforded the opportunity. After the developmental assignment, the officer will spend one year working full-time on the dissertation at SAMS or another suitable location and then be available for utilization as a strategic planner. b.  Eligible officers (HQDA SSC selectee) in ASP3 may receive MEL 1 credit when all designated MEL 1 portions of the program are completed. ASP3 will only offer HQDA SSC selectees the designated MEL 1 portion. ASP3 MEL 1 portion includes completion of successful year in graduate school, and article for publication on an Army/DOD strategic issue and completion of PME block of ASP3. 3  69.  Joint professional military education and training institutions a.  Joint education institutions prepare officers and DOD civilians for assignments at Joint or combined headquar-ters/commands. Joint Professional Military Education (JPME) is governed by the CJCSI 1800.01E Officer Professional Military Education Policy (OPMEP) and CJCSI 1805  01B Enlisted Professional Military Education Policy (EPMEP). JPME is a subset of PME; it begins at pre-commissioning institutions and progresses through general officer education. JPME provides the body of knowledge to enhance performance of duties consistent with Joint matters and in the context of joint functions  command and control, intelligence, fires, movement and maneuver, protection and sustainment. JPME is that portion of PME that supports fulfillment of the educational requirements for joint officer qualification (see 10 USC Chapter 38, Section 661(c) and DODI 1300.19, DOD Joint Officer Program, dated 4 March 2014 for Joint officer qualifi-cations). The education generally prepares students to accomplish Joint command and staff functions and to perform stra-tegic and operational planning. b.  The Armys accredited JPME institutions are the CGSC (JPME I), the ASLSP (JPME II) and the U.S. Army War College Resident Program (JPME II), Distant Education Program (JPME I and working on JPME II). Other JPME institu-tions include: Sister Service Command and Staff level institutions (JPME I), National Intelligence University (JPME I), Sister Service War Colleges (JPME II), National Defense University, at Ft McNair, Washington, DC, programs include the National War College (JPME II), The Eisenhower School (JPME II), the College of International Security Affairs (JPME II senior program only), and the Information Resource Management College (JPME II senior program only) as well as the Joint Forces Staff College, Norfolk, VA, that include the Joint Advanced Warfighting School (JPME II), Joint and Combined Warfighting School (JPME II) and Advanced Joint Professional Military Education (AJPME) course (Cur-rently for RC Only, JPME II equivalent, supports Joint Qualification Level III, working to open to all components and full JPME II accreditation). c.  Specialized courses focused on a particular command or multi-national audiences such as the North American Treaty Organization (NATO) are also available. The NATO School Oberammergau, Germany (https://www.natoschool.nato.int/) offers the NATO Staff Officers Orientations Course; this course is mandatory for all RA and AGR officers in the grade of 0  4 through 0  6 selected for an initial assignment to a NATO staff position. The course acquaints students with NATO missions, organizations and procedures, preparing graduates for their NATO Assignments and ensuring effective interac-tion with their allied colleagues. Chapter 4 Civilian Training, Education and Development Section I Civilian Training, Education and Development 4  1.  Training and Developing the Army Civilian Corps a.  Training and development of the Army Civilian Corps is required to sustain a mission-ready Army. The Army is increasingly reliant on its Civilian Corps to support the operating force. The environment within which members of the Army Civilian Corps function is characterized by increasing complexity, to include highly networked organizations and more decentralized operations. Because of increased interaction with unified action partner organizations, members of the Army Civilian Corps must be culturally aware and able to interact with a diverse set of partners. Like their uniformed counterparts, Civilian employees must be functionally proficient, and technically competent skilled leaders who are fully capable, adaptable, and totally committed to supporting the Armys mission. b.  5 USC 4101 provides the authority to train Army Civilian employees. c.  Training is defined as the process of providing for and making available to an employee, and placing or enrolling the employee in a planned, prepared, and coordinated program, course, curriculum, subject, system, or routine of instruction or education, in scientific, professional, technical, mechanical, trade, clerical, fiscal, administrative, or other fields which will improve individual and organizational performance and assist in achieving the agencys mission and performance goals. d.  Training may occur in a government facility (for example, TRADOC), other military schools, and Government-supported schools and when properly coordinated and approved, in a non-Government facility (for example, accredited universities, colleges offering accredited programs, and industry). e.  Mission-related functional training is training required to support Army goals by improving organizational perfor-mance at any appropriate level. This includes training that: (1)  Supports the Armys strategic plan and organizational objectives; (2)  Improves an employees current job performance and/or competencies, or closes an existing competency gap; (3)  Allows for expansion or enhancement of an employees current job by developing new competencies; (4)  Enables an employee to perform needed or potentially needed duties outside the current job at the same level of responsibility; (5)  Meets organizational needs in response to human resource plans and re-engineering, downsizing, or other program changes; (6)  Develops employee competencies to facilitate career progression; or (7)  Supports recruitment strategies for hard to fill jobs. f.  Retraining provides training and development to address an individuals skills that are obsolete for their current po-sition and/or training and development to prepare an individual for a different occupation, in order to meet emerging requirements. Section II Civilian Education 4  2.  Civilian Leader Development The Army Civilian leader development programs help to prepare agile and innovative Army Civilians who can lead during times of change and uncertainty; are prepared for the rigors of service as multi-skilled leaders; and are armed with the values, skills and mindset to serve as competent, resilient member of the Army Civilian Corps. The professional attitudes and beliefs that characterize the Department of the Army Civilian are found in the Civilian Creed (see ADRP 6  22). 4  3.  The Civilian Education System a.  The CES program is the Armys leader development program for all Army Civilians. It provides progressive and sequential education for Army Civilians at key positions throughout their careers. Courses of instruction are provided through blended learning - DL and resident instruction. CES courses are to be taken in sequence over a period of time as Army Civilians progress through their careers. Course applications are completed through CHRTAS. b.  CES courses are the core leader development courses for most Army Civilians based on grade and equivalent pay band level as they progress through their careers. See eligibility requirements and priorities for resident training classes. c.  CES courses are targeted at the Army Civilian GS grade levels and equivalent pay bands and pay scales, as follows: (1)  Foundation Course.  GS 1  15 and equivalent pay band/scale new hires. (2)  Basic Course.  GS 1  9 and equivalent pay band/scale. (3)  Intermediate Course.  GS 10  12 and equivalent pay band/scale. (4)  Advanced Course.  GS 13  15 and equivalent pay band/scale. (5)  Continuing Education for Senior Leaders.  GS 14  15 and equivalent pay band/scale. d.  Funding. (1)  Most permanent Army Civilians (to include appropriated funds (AF), nonappropriated funds (NAFs), local nations, and wage grade) are centrally funded for CES training by DCS, G  37/(Training Directorate). (2)  Military members, term and temporary Army Civilians, and non-Army employees, are funded through their organ-izations. e.  Supervisors and managers are responsible for setting guidelines that allow employees duty time to complete required DL training for CES courses. Guidelines can be in the form of a written or verbal agreement and should articulate a study schedule and timeline for the employee to complete the course. f.  Civilian Education System Course Equivalency. A complete listing may be found on the CHRTAS website. Credit for previous training completion is auto-determined by the CHRTAS. The individual profile in CHRTAS will show that CES requirements have been met through equivalent credit. g.  Civilians who have completed SSC are exempt from CES requirements except for the Foundation Course when hired after 30 September 2006. 4  4.  Foundation Course a.  The Foundation Course goal is to provide Army Civilians with an orientation to leader development concepts, to start building their careers as Army Civilian leaders. The course objectives are to understand Army leadership doctrine;  increase  self-awareness,  as  it  relates  to  their  profession;  understand  team  building,  group  dynamics,  and effective  communication;  assess  individual  values  and  how  they  relate  to  professional  ethics;  understand  how  to manage professional advancement and leverage career potential; and complete administrative requirements expected of Army  Ci-vilians. b.  The Foundation Course is required for all new Army Civilian employees hired into full-time, permanent positions after 30 September 2006. c.  Commanders or supervisors may approve exceptions to this requirement if an employee is unable to take the course due to logistical conditions, lack of access to the network, or other limitations. d.  The Foundation Course is available through DL only. e.  Interns  are  required  to  complete  the  Foundation  Course  before  completion  of  their  intern  program. f.  The Foundation Course is available to all Army Civilians as a self-development tool in instances where the course is not required. 4  5.  Basic Course a.  The Basic Course is required for GS 5  9 supervisors (and equivalent pay band/pay plan).  b.  The Basic Course is encouraged, but not required, for those non-supervisor employees who seek supervisory and/or leader positions. c.  The Basic Course is offered in an online only version (Basic Course Unphased Distance Learning) and a two phase distance learningresident version. d.  Commands may fill allotted quotas for the resident phase with both current supervisors and aspiring leaders. e.  Current supervisors should fill a majority of a command's assigned resident quota. 4  6.  Intermediate Course a.  The Intermediate Course target population is mid-level leaders who by necessity are more agile, innovative, self-aware, and prepared to effectively lead and care for personnel and manage assigned resources. Training and developmental exercises focus on mission planning, team building, establishing command climate, and stewardship of resources.. b.  The Intermediate Course is conducted through blended learning - DL and 3 weeks resident training. Resident training  is  taken  after  successful  completion  of  the  DL  and  takes  place  in  a  university  setting  encompassing  a classroom  environment  and  small  group  seminars. c.  The Intermediate Course is required for GS 10  12 supervisors (and equivalent pay band/pay plan). d.  The Intermediate Course is encouraged, but not required, for those non-supervisor employees who seek supervisory and/or leader positions. e.  Commands may fill allotted quotas with both current supervisors and aspiring leaders. f.  Current supervisors should fill a majority of a command's assigned quota. 4  7.  Advanced Course a.  The Advanced Course focus is on Army Civilians skilled in leading a complex organization in support of national security and defense strategies; integrating Army and Joint systems in support of the Joint Force; inspiring vision and creativity;  implementing  change;  and  managing  programs. b.  The Advanced Course is conducted through blended learning - DL and 4 weeks resident training. Resident training  is  taken  after  successful  completion  of  the  DL  and  takes  place  in  a  university  setting  encompassing  a classroom  environment  and  small  group  seminars.. c.  The Advanced Course is required for GS 13  15 Supervisors (and equivalent pay band/pay plan). d.  The Advanced Course is encouraged, but not required, for those non-supervisor employees who seek supervisory and/or leader positions. e.  Commands may fill allotted quotas with both current supervisors and aspiring leaders. f.  Current supervisors should fill a majority of a command's assigned quota. 4  8.  Selection priority attendance at resident training a.  Priority 1.  Army Civilians in a permanent (full-time) appointment to a supervisory position. b.  Priority 2.  Army Civilians in a permanent appointment to a non-supervisory position. c.  Priority 3.  Military supervisors of Army Civilians, DOD and other Federal agency leaders. Army Civilians in term or temporary appointments who have responsibility for leading or supervising Army Civilians.  Priority 3 attendees are not centrally-funded and must be funded by their organizations. 4  9.  Eligibility for resident training a.  Army Civilians in a permanent appointment. b.  Military supervisors of Army Civilians, DOD, and all other Federal agency leaders, and term and temporary Army Civilians. c.  Army Civilians must have a current performance rating of successful or above and be in good conduct standing. d.  Employees must have successfully completed the Foundation Course if required and the applicable Course DL. 4  10.  Continuing Education for Senior Leaders a.  The CESL courses provide the continuing education sustainment program that brings senior level Army Civilian leaders together to discuss current and relevant issues facing the Army. The programs intent is for leaders to return to the program continuously to refresh and receive updates on current Army initiatives. b.  The CESL course is conducted through blended learning - DL and four and a half days resident training. The DL consists of reading materials and written assignments. c.  CESL resident training consists of both small and large group activities. The course structure is a combination of guest speakers and interactive exercises. d.  Eligibility requirements. (1)  Army Civilians in permanent appointment to GS  14/15 or equivalent. (2)  Active duty Military at the rank O  5, O  6, CW4, CW5, SGM, or CSM. (3)  DOD or other Federal agency leaders in permanent appointment G  14/15 or equivalent. (4)  Employee must have successfully completed the Foundation Course, if required. (5)  Successful completion of the Advanced Course or equivalent course. (6)  One year is required between Advanced Course completion and CESL attendance. (7)  One year is required between each CESL attendance. Section III Supervisor Development Course 4  11.  Mandatory supervisory training for Army Civilian and military supervisors a.  The Supervisory Development Course is the Armys single source for providing mandatory supervisory training and refresher and/or sustainment training. The Supervisory Development Course is a web-based course with lessons that focus on supervising Army Civilian employees and is required for all Army Civilian and military personnel who supervise Army Civilians. b.  Army Civilian supervisors must complete their corresponding grade-level CES course to meet the leader develop-ment requirement for supervisors. The Supervisory Development Course must be completed within the first year of place-ment in a supervisory position in accordance with the 1-year supervisory probationary period. Supervisors are required to complete this course as refresher training every 3 years. Re-certification must be complete within 3 years of previous completion. c.  Army Civilian supervisors must complete the Supervisory Development Course before they can submit a request for CES constructive course credit. d.  Supervisory Development Course is available to all Army employees as a self-development tool. e.  Employees enrolled in the Supervisory Development Course have 120 days to complete the course from the date of registration. If course is not completed within this timeframe, employees will be required to re-register and restart the course. 4  12.  Executive Level-Supervisor Development Course Supervisor Development Course  Executive Level (SDC  EX). SDC  EX is required for experienced senior leaders (SES/GO) who have previously supervised Army Civilians. The purpose of this course is to meet the requirements of the NDAA 2010. This course is a guide and presents Army, DOD, and OPM provisions those critical areas designated in the NDAA, including: merit systems principles / prohibited personnel practices; performance management; counseling, coach-ing, and mentoring; hostile work environment; valuing a diverse workforce; management and labor relations; and leader development and Army Civilian education system programs. Section IV Online Course 4  13.  Action Officer Development Course a.  The Action Officer Development Course is a web-based course with a focus on staff work practices in the Army. Action Officer Development Course covers organization and management; conducting completed staff work; managing time and priorities; conducting meetings and interviews; solving problems and making decisions; communications; writing to the Army standard; coordinating; conducting briefings; and ethics. The course is available to military and Army Civilian employees to take at any point in their careers. b.  The Action Officer Development Course is a required course for all Army interns and completion is required for completion of the intern program. c.  The Action Officer Development Course is available to all Army Civilians as a self-development tool. 4  14.  Manager Development Course a.  The Manager Development Course is a web-based course with lessons that focus on managing and leading people. The Manager Development Course includes modules in organizational culture; time management; objectives and plans; problem solving and decision making; planning, programming and budgeting; manpower management; communications; IT applications; the Army Environmental Program; equal employment opportunity; professional ethics; internal manage-ment control; and Army family team building. b.  The Manager Development Course is available as a self-development tool for all Army employees and is recom-mended for Army Civilians in supervisory or managerial positions. Section V Competitive Professional Development 4  15.  Competitive Professional Development a.  The Competitive Professional Development Program is a planned, systematic, and coordinated program of profes-sional development that supports the Armys organizational goals and mission. It encompasses functionally tailored de-velopmental opportunities that occur in academic environments, business/industrial settings, or in other strategically planned career enhancing developmental assignments that have been identified in an approved Career Program Master Training Plan or IDP. Training instances may be short- or long-term and funded from various sources. b.  Short-term training.  Training of 120 calendar days or less is considered short-term training. Training instances may include, but are not limited to, professional workshops, seminars, and university courses. Attendance at workshops and seminars must have a demonstrated training purpose and must be documented in each respective Career Program Field Master Training Plan or IDP. Employees should contact their supervisors and/or respective Activity Career PMs for spe-cific program information and/or application procedures. c.  Long-term training.  Long-term training and education is training to which an employee is assigned on a continuous, full-time basis for more than 120 calendar days. The assignment may be at either government or non- government facilities and may include both formal training programs and strategically planned career assignments. This training enables em-ployees to stay abreast of changes and innovations in their occupational fields, learn new skills, or develop/improve abili-ties needed in current positions and meet emerging Army requirements. (1)  An employee on a long-term training assignment at an academic institution must be enrolled in a full-time program and carry the minimum number of credit hours required to be considered a full-time student at that institution. (2)  During school breaks of 4 working days or more, the employee will return to duty at the employing activity. Em-ployees who do not return to duty must either use annual leave during school breaks or their supervisor must certify that the student will be fully involved in a research/study project related to the training assignment. d.  Developmental assignments.  Developmental assignments provide activities a way to enhance competencies by giv-ing employees an opportunity to perform duties in other occupational, functional, or organizational elements. This en-hances employee understanding of other operations, systems, and relationships. The length of assignments may vary, but must have a well-defined learning objective and be established in conformance with all applicable civilian personnel man-agement regulations. e.  Training with industry.  This is a non-degree producing program designed to provide training, skills, and/or best business procedures and practices not available through existing military or advanced Army Civilian schooling programs for identifiable DOD requirements. While participating in Training With Industry, selected employees continue to collect their normal pay and allowances while assigned outside the DOD. Selected program participants are required to sign a Continued Service Agreement. f.  Competitive Professional Development Program Eligibility. (1)  Applicant must meet all course, program, and administrative requirements in the training/program announcement by nomination deadline. (2)  Employees selected for non-Government training in excess of 40 hours, or Government training/developmental assignments in excess of 160 hours must sign an agreement to continue service in the DOD, before training begins. (3)  Command endorsement is required for all training requests whereby an employee must be excused from his/her normal 40-hour tour of duty for more than 120 days. (4)  Functional Career Representative review/approval may be required for employees nominated to participate in HQDA centrally funded Competitive Professional Development training. See respective Army Master Training Plans and the Army Civilian Training Catalog for program/course specific eligibility requirements and/or prerequisites. (5)  Be employed as an Army Civilian in a designated career program and USAR technicians except when such policies are modified by AR 140  315. It does not apply to ARNG technicians employed under 32 USC Section 709, unless spe-cifically made applicable by the CNGB. g.  The Competitive Professional Development Application Process. (1)  Army employees must submit Competitive Professional Development application packages to their appropriate chain of command, and if applicable, the respective functional career representative. Refer to the Program Announcement for specific requirements. (2)  Functional, managerial, and civilian personnel officials will ensure nominations for Competitive Professional De-velopment programs are made consistent with merit system principles in 5 USC 2301(b). (3)  For centrally managed Competitive Professional Development programs, the DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Civilian Train-ing and Leader Development Division) will serve as liaison with the appropriate training institution/vendor. This does not include SSC, ELDP and the DSLDP, which have a separate application and board process. (4)  The SF 182 (Authorization, Agreement and Certification of Training) is Armys official document for requesting, approving and documenting training. If an employee attends a training event prior to receiving official approval, to include a fund citation, he/she will be responsible for all associated training costs. 4  16.  Senior Enterprise Talent Management Program a.  The SETM and ETM Programs are structured Army Civilian professional development system designed to meet the Armys long- term performance needs in a productive and efficient way. SETM and ETM are the means by which the Army prepares its senior Army Civilians to assume duty positions of greatest responsibility across the Army. These pro-grams are designed to afford selected GS  12  15 and equivalent Army Civilians an exceptional professional development, senior-level educational or experiential learning opportunity. b.  The SETM and ETM programs operates in accordance with the policy and procedures set forth in Army directive 2017  13 under the overall supervision and oversight of the ASA (M&RA) and will be executed by the Civilian Service Leader Management Office (CSLMO). The ASA (M&RA) and CSLMO will ensure that SETM complements and lever-ages other DOD and Army leader development programs and initiatives, while avoiding duplication. c.  The Senior Enterprise Talent Management and enterprise talent management programs are comprised of nine com-ponents.  Enterprise Placement Program Senior Executive Service Details; Project-Based SETM TDY Assignments; at-tendance at a SSC; attendance at the Defense Senior Leader Development Program; Army Senior Civilian Fellowships; Command and General Staff Officers Course; Executive Leader Development Program; Project-Based ETM TDY Assign-ments; and Leadership Shadowing Experiences. d.  Participation in Enterprise Placement Program.  This component affords selecting officials an opportunity to con-sider AEEs for an SES detail assignment of up to 1 year to a designated Army SES position. The program enhances organizational efficiency by providing a designated AEE with a challenging senior-level assignment while allowing a selecting official the opportunity to temporarily fill an SES position. A mobility agreement is required. The number of applicants who may be considered and selected for participation in the Enterprise Placement Program is not limited. e.  Project-Based SETM temporary duty assignments.  This component is open to Army Civilians in grades GS  14/15 (or their equivalents). This component offers short-term developmental assignments intended to challenge and provide a broadening experience to the employee. This component consists of a TDY assignment to work on a special project nom-inated by a command or organization, as part of an ad hoc working group or to fill a critical need detail for a period not to exceed 179 days. Upon completion of the TDY assignment, the employee returns to his/her permanent duty station with no further obligation. A mobility agreement is not required. The number of applicants who may be considered and selected for participation in the SETM TDY module is limited only by available funding. f.  Participation in a SSC.  This component is open to Army Civilians in grades GS  14/15 (or their equivalents) who will compete for allocated seats at the USAWC (Resident or DEP) or the Eisenhower School for National Security and Resource Strategy and are subject to the Graduate Placement Program. For additional policy and qualification requirements refer to the Army Civilian section on SSC policy. g.  Participation in the DSLDP.  This component is open to Army Civilians in grades GS  14/15 (or their equivalents). DSLDP is DODs premier Civilian leader development program. This component of the SETM Program is limited to senior Army Civilians in grades GS  14 and GS  15 (or equivalents). h.  Participation in ASCF.  This component affords participants, known as fellows, the opportunity to engage in post-graduate study of issues of importance to the Army, DOD, and the Nation. ASCF offers fellows further opportunity to apply their knowledge of the national security mission to the study of complex policy and operational challenges senior DoD and Army officials face. Upon completion of ASCF, fellows are placed in duty positions intended to leverage the competencies fostered in ASCF and at locations where the Army most needs their capabilities. ASCF fellows are subject to a GPP. Accordingly, each applicant must execute and submit a mobility agreement and continued service agreement. A fellow may be required to file an OGE Form 450 (Confidential Financial Disclosure Report). The number of available ASCF fellowships determines the number of applicants selected for ASCF participation. i.  Participation in Enterprise Talent Management-Shadowing.  This module is open to select Army Civilians in grade GS  13 or equivalent. An ETM Shadowing participant has the opportunity to accompany and observe a senior leader in action in his/her daily work environment for up to 20 working days. The senior leader may involve the ETM participant in the task at hand. The benefits of shadowing include experiencing what it is like to work as a senior Civilian at the Army enterprise level, the ability to ask questions while the senior leader goes about their daily activities and validation of per-ceptions about a particular field of work. The number of applicants who may be considered for participation in ETM Shadowing is based on Army resources and needs. j.  Participation in ETM  TDY.  The ETM TDY module is open to select Army Civilians in grade GS  13 or equivalent. An ETM TDY participant will fill a short-term developmental assignment on a special project as a member of a working group or tiger team, or will fill a critical need detail for a period not to exceed 90 days. The benefits of an ETM TDY assignment include new and challenging work in a different work environment and a broadening experience at the enter-prise level. Upon completion of the TDY assignment, participants return to their permanent duty stations; a mobility agree-ment IS NOT required, but ETM TDY participants will be subject to the provisions of a continued service agreement. The number of applicants who may be considered and selected for participation in ETM TDY is based on Army resources and needs. k.  Participation in CGSOC.  The ETM CGSOC resident attendance module is open to select Army Civilians in grade GS  13 or equivalent and, by exception, Army Civilians in grade GS  12 or equivalent. Following 1 month in the Prepara-tion Course, an ETM CGSOC participant will attend CGSOC Developmental School, a 10-month graduate-level program at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. The benefits of participating in ETM CGSOC are an increased knowledge of the operational and tactical Army and preparation for the challenges faced in a dynamic and complex global environment. Each applicant for resident CGSOC must execute and submit a mobility agreement and continued service agreement. CGSOC graduates selecting the PCS option are subject to the GPP. The number of applicants who may be selected for participation in ETM CGSOC is limited by the number of slots the DCS, G  3/5/7 and the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College allocate to Army Civilians. l.  Application and selection procedures for the SETM Program are set forth in Army Directive 2017  13.  More detailed information about the SETM Program, its components, and instructions on how to apply, are available at https://www.csldo.army.mil//index.aspx. Applicants will use a secure, automated tool-the Senior Enterprise Talent Man-agement System to self-nominate to participate in one or more SETM components. m.  Senior Service College. (1)  SSC is at the apex of the Army Civilian education system and prepares Army Civilians for positions of responsibility in the DOD (see also para 3-44). It provides Army Civilian GS  14/15 (or equivalent) advanced level educational oppor-tunities for leaders who require an understanding of complex policy and operational challenges and increased knowledge of the national security mission, and requires a thorough knowledge of strategy and the art and science of developing and using instruments of national power (diplomatic, informational, military, and economic) during peace and war. This knowledge is necessary in order to perform Army, Joint, or Defense Agency operations at the strategic level (ACOM, ASCC, DRU, field operating agency, Joint Task Force or higher). Attendance is a competitive process and selections are made through the SETM Program (see AD 2017  13). (2)  Eligibility requirements. (a)  Army Civilian in permanent appointment to a GS  14/15 or equivalent position. (b)  Have served three years in an Army Civilian permanent appointment before application to a SSC. (c)  Possess a baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university. (d)  Completion of the CES Advanced Course or course equivalent. (e)  Have a SECRET security clearance that will not expire during the academic year of attendance at SSC. (3)  SSC applicants are required to sign a mobility agreement and a continuing service agreement. Participants are re-quired to serve in the DOD for a minimum of three times the length of the program. (4)  SSCs available to Army Civilians. (a)  USAWC. (b)  Eisenhower School for National Security and Resource Strategy. (c)  Army War College Distance Education. (5)  Central Personnel Training Account (CPTA). (a)  Civilians selected to attend the SSC resident programs will be reassigned to a long-term training authorization on the CPTA. Students attend SSC in a TDY status from the students current duty location. (b)  Civilians living overseas may qualify for an exception. Overseas selectees whose Families may be negatively im-pacted by the current Status of Forces agreements will not be assigned to the central account. (c)  Civilians assigned to the CPTA will no longer be the responsibility of individual organizations but will be managed by the CPTA Manager.. (d)  Losing commands will have the ability to immediately backfill against the vacant position. (e)  All CPTA members are subject to the mandatory Graduate Placement Program. (f)  CPTA members will be entitled to one centrally funded PCS move to their next permanent duty assignment upon SSC graduation. (g)  CPTA will not fund other developmental training while student is attending SSC. (6)  SSC travel guidance for Army Civilians: Travel to and from the colleges listed above is centrally funded. (a)  Distance Education Program. 1.  Participant is authorized 100 percent per diem for one trip to and from the training site. 2.  Reimbursement is limited to constructive cost of common carrier transportation and related per diem as determined in the Joint Travel Regulation, Volume 2. (b)  Resident Program: 1.  Per diem is based on authorized expenses, established in the Joint Travel Regulation for the training site. Reimburse-ment for local travel while on per diem is not authorized. 2.  Participant is authorized one trip to and from the training site at 100 percent per diem (reimbursement is limited to constructive cost of common carrier transportation and related per diem as determined in the Joint Travel Regulation, Volume 2. 3.  Scheduled partial payment must be selected by the participant to receive monthly payments while attending SSC. 4.  Authorized expenses: Retention of lodging during leave status is authorized; and, Rent and utilities (covered in per diem). 5.  Resident and distance education non-authorized expenses: Rental cars to include moving van rental (rental cars are not authorized under any circumstances, regardless of quota source); limousines; excess baggage; and, in-and-around mile-age costs at the TDY site. n.  Defense Senior Leader Development Program. (1)  The DSLDP is the premiere executive development program for senior defense Civilians and a key component of the DOD succession planning strategy. The DSLDP provides Joint leadership academic experience through: senior- level professional military education; Defense-unique leadership seminars from an enterprise-wide perspective; and opportuni-ties for individual development based on the participants Individual Development Plan. The goal of DSLDP is to empower participants to think strategically, envision what is on the horizon, and formulate proactive, competitive solutions that produce results for DOD and the nation. The DSLDP is not an SES Candidate Development Program; however, program elements are designed to enhance an individuals readiness for senior level leadership positions. (2)  Selection to the DSLDP is a two part process: Army nomination through the SETM Program (see AD 2017  13), and selection by the DOD Selection Board. DSLDP participants continue in their current assignment with their agency or organization when not in official DSLDP training. DSLDP participation requires an extensive time commitment during a two year period. It is critical for the supervisor to agree to the time commitment for individual development which includes SSC for participants without prior SSC. Participants will complete all requirements within two years, depending on their prior education, career goals, and individual needs. Participants are expected to balance their duty related responsibilities with those of the program. (3)  Army eligibility requirements. (a)  Army Civilian in permanent appointment to a GS  14/15 or equivalent position. (b)  Have served three years in an Army Civilian permanent appointment before application to a DSLDP. (c)  Possess a baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university. (d)  Completion of the CES Advanced Course or course equivalent. (e)  Have a TOP SECRET security clearance, with special background investigation, that will not expire during the academic year of attendance at DSLDP. Candidates with a SECRET clearance may be admitted to DSLDP, but may be limited as to the courses and lectures in which they may participate. (f)  Possess a minimum of one year of significant experience in supervising or managing people in an official capacity. Experience must be recent (no more than 5 years old). (4)  DSLDP applicants are required to sign a mobility agreement and a continuing service agreement. Participants are required to serve in the DOD for a minimum of three times the length of the program. (5)  SSCs available for DSLDP Army participants. (a)  National War College. (b)  Dwight D. Eisenhower School of National Security and Resource Strategy. (c)  Naval War College. (d)  Air War College. o.  Graduate Placement Program for Senior service College and Defense Senior Leader Development Program. (1)  The Army has established a policy of directed placement to maximize the return on investment for SSC and DSLDP graduates. The Graduate Placement Program provides an avenue for full utilization of competencies acquired through advanced education. (2)  The Graduate Placement Program for SSC and DSLDP graduates is conducted through the SETM program in ac-cordance with the policy and procedures set forth in AD  2017  13. p.  Defense Executive Leadership Development Program. (1)  The Defense Executive Leadership Development Program was established as a Secretary of Defense Initiative in 1985. It is a unique and challenging opportunity for DOD employees to gain insight, training, and exposure to the missions and complex role our war fighters. Participants train with each military service, as well as combined and allied forces around the world. The goal of the Defense Executive Leadership Development Program is to stretch participants experi-ences and comfort zones and to help them develop the knowledge, skills, and behaviors expected of future Enterprise leaders. This program demands a significant commitment by participants and their commands for a 10 month period. (2)  Potential applicants for the Defense Executive Leadership Development Program are highly motivated, have sus-tained high performance throughout their Civilian career and demonstrated outstanding leadership potential. They possess excellent communication and problem solving skills, demonstrate initiative, work ethic, professional excellence, and a commitment to public service and integrity. (3)  Personnel selected for the Defense Executive Leadership Development Program are nominated by their commands and compete with other applicants from within the Army for nomination to the program. All applicants are selected through a competitive selection process. (4)  Eligibility requirements. (a)  Full-time Army Civilians in the grade levels of GS  12 through GS  13 or equivalent pay grades with a minimum of 1 year of service in a permanent Army Civilian position. (NOTE: Employees in other equivalent systems or on grade retention should seek assistance from their personnel advisor). (b)  Completion of CES course. 1.  Successful completion of CES Intermediate Course or course credit - GS  12 or equivalent. 2.  Successful completion of CES Intermediate Course or CES Advanced Course or course credit  GS  13 or equivalent. (c)  Active duty Soldiers in the rank of SFC  to SGM, CWO 3 to CWO5, CPT (promotable) or MAJ. (d)  Possess a Baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university, or demonstrate equivalent experience and training. (e)  Possess a secret security clearance at the time of nomination. (f)  Possess a valid passport and Government travel card. 4  17.  Academic degree training a.  Academic degree training is training or education with the stated objective of obtaining an academic degree from a college or university that is accredited by a regional, national, or international accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education and listed in its database of accredited post-secondary institutions and programs. The academic degree must be related to the performance of the employees official duties and part of a planned, systematic and coordi-nated program of professional development, endorsed by the Army that supports organizational goals and results and the results are measurable in terms of individual and organization performance. b.  Before providing endorsement to fund an academic degree training request, it is the responsibility of the command and/or career program to ensure the type and cost of the training/degree is a good return on investment for Army. c.  Academic degree training requests, regardless of funding source (career program or command), require approval by the ASA (M&RA).  This does not apply to employees in Army sponsored Intern or Fellows programs. d.  Employees must not circumvent the academic degree training approval and funding process by submitting requests for the approval of individual college courses, annotating that such training in not part of an academic degree training program. e.  Academic degree training participants must satisfactorily complete all courses of study. Undergraduate students must maintain a C average or better; graduate students must maintain a B average or better for all courses completed. Failure to do so may result in repayment to the government of all costs associated with the training course/program (that is, tuition, books, equipment, tools, and fees). f.  It is the responsibility of the respective functional career representative/command to coordinate input of grades into the DCPDS and GoArmyed systems prior to approving additional courses. g.  The maximum dollar amount for funding academic degree programs is $75,000. Application packets exceeding this maximum must be accompanied by a request for waiver, additional supporting justification, and Functional Career Repre-sentative/ command concurrence. Waivers must be submitted through the DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division) for ASA (M&RA) approval. h.  Employees selected for academic degree training must agree in writing to continue service in the Army at least three times the length of the training program or course. This training period of the Continued Service Agreement obligated service begins at the completion of training and upon the employees return to duty. i.  Expenses associated with granting course credit for life experience, school/university acceptance application, and graduation application/conferment fee will be funded by the employee. j.  Eligibility requirement. Applicants must meet Competitive Professional Development eligibility requirements, to in-clude serving 2 years (in any combination) of a full-time, permanent appointment as an Army Civilian by the nomination deadline. k.  Academic degree training will not be used as a specific means for employees to qualify for appointment to a higher/different position. l.  The SF 182 is Armys official document for requesting, approving and documenting training. If an employee attends a training event prior to receiving official approval, to include a fund citation, he/she will be responsible for all associated training costs. 4  18.  Army Congressional Fellowship Program a.  The purpose of the Army Congressional Fellowship Program (ACFP) is three fold: (1)  To provide outstanding commissioned officers, NCOs, and Army Civilians first-hand experience and understanding of the strategic relationships between the Army and Congress; (2)  To expose congressional members and staff to the outstanding quality of Army commissioned officers, NCOs and Army Civilians which allows them to learn about the Army as an institution through contact with Army fellows working in their office; and, (3)  to develop a pool of personnel from which some may be selected for future utilization. b.  ACFP is designed to provide Congressional training to selected Army officers, senior non-commissioned officers, and Civilians. It provides outstanding Army Civilians an opportunity to work in a legislative liaison position in their parent organization. Selected Army Civilian participants are temporarily attached to the Army Secretariat in support of the legis-lative affairs function, but remain permanently assigned to their command. The program includes an orientation to HQDA operations and an academic portion which includes course work leading towards a Masters Degree in Legislative Affairs through George Washington University. c.  The George Washington University Program is a rigorous eleven-course, one-of-a-kind curriculum that exposes stu-dents to all aspects of the Congressional experience. Following completion of the George Washington University program, two-thirds of the programs students serve on the staff of a member of Congress or on a Congressional Committee. This provides participants a unique opportunity to network with staffers they will be working with on Capitol Hill during follow-on assignments in the legislative liaison arena. d.  Individuals selected to participate in the ACFP will remain on his/her current organizations TDA, but will be tem-porarily attached to OCLL. e.  The Office of the Chief Legislative Liaison is the proponent for the Army Congressional Fellowship. Its overall guidance/policy is covered in AR 1  202. Congressional Fellowship Program for military personnel is covered under AR 621  7. f.  Eligibility requirements (For Army Civilians only). (see Military see AR 621  7). (1)  Civilians in grade level GS  11 through GS  14 or equivalent levels. (2)  Must have a minimum of three years in a permanent full-time Army appointment by the nomination deadline. (3)  Must have at least a Bachelors Degree (grade point average must be 3.0 unless applicant has previously earned a Masters Degree). (4)  Must sign a continued service agreement for a minimum of three times the length of the training. (5)  Successful completion of CES training for appropriate grade level. (a)  Successful completion of the CES Intermediate Course or equivalent course for GS  11/12, or equivalent level ap-plicants. (b)  Successful completion of the CES Advanced Course or equivalent course for GS  13/14 or equivalent level appli-cants. (6)  All nomination packets must be endorsed by the command. g.  Funding. (1)  Program to include tuition, travel, per diem, and incidental entitlements allowable by the Joint Travel Regulations is centrally funded. (2)  Limited TDY at the request of the Congressman/Senator or Committee/Organization to which the Fellow is assigned is also centrally funded. h.  Nominations/Selections. (1)  DCS, G  3/5/7 (DCS, G  37/DAMO  TRV) will convene a Civilian ACFP Board to rate and rank command nomi-nated applicants. One primary Army Civilian and one alternate Army Civilian nominee will be selected and presented to DCS, G  3/5/7, (Director of Training), for review and approval. (2)  The approved OML will be forwarded to the Office of the Chief, Legislative Affairs. (3)  The Office of the Chief, Legislative Affairs reserves final selection authority. (4)  The G  37/TR will notify commands of Army Civilian selection results. (5)  AR 1  202 is the governing regulation for this program. 4  19.  Leadership for a Democratic Society at the Federal Executive Institute a.  The Leadership for a Democratic Society program (commonly referred to as Federal Executive Institute) is a four-week program designed to improve the leadership skills of senior career federal government employees and executives to enhance individual and organization performance. This program focuses on four themes: personal leadership, transforming organizations, policy in a Constitutional system, and the global context for executive action. b.  Training consists of large seminar and small breakout sessions guided by professional facilitators. Sessions are of-fered ten times throughout the year. The maximum enrollment is approximately seventy executives per session, shared by other DOD components. c.  The program is conducted at the Federal Executive Institute in Charlottesville, VA. d.  Eligibility requirements. (1)  Civilians in permanent appointments GS  15 to SES, or equivalent levels. (2)  At the time of the application, applicant must have 1 year of service in a full-time, permanent appointment as an Army Civilian. (3)  Completion of CES Advanced Course or equivalent course. (4)  Must sign a continued service agreement for a minimum of three times the length of the training. e.  Nominations must have ACOM, ASCC, DRU, and/or Office of the Administrative Assistant endorsement. f.  Funding (1)  The nominating activity funds tuition, travel, per diem, and incidental entitlements allowable by the Joint Travel Regulations. (2)  ACTEDS funds may be used with appropriate DCS, G  3/5/7 G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division/functional career representative approval. (3)  Non-appropriated fund employees must check with their respective budget point of contact to ensure that funding is available for this course. 4  20.  Harvard University Program for Senior Executive Fellows a.  The Harvard University Program for Senior Executive Fellows is a four-week program designed to build executive skills in political and public management, negotiation, human resource management, policy-making, organizational strat-egy, communication, ethics and leadership. Participants are expected to contribute their professional expertise to comple-ment the programs learning experience and are selected to reflect a broad cross-section of functional and operational responsibilities. This program also provides participants with a unique opportunity to gain perspectives on public policy and management, to strengthen managerial skills and to acquire insights into managerial practice, and to interact across agency and executive-legislative branch boundaries. b.  The Harvard Program for Senior Executive Fellows is open to GS  14/15 or equivalent level Army Civilian leaders who have advanced rapidly into senior positions and are now required to focus on the larger picture of the organization. This program is strongly recommended for senior executive service candidates. c.  Eligibility requirements (1)  Must be a GS  14 or GS  15 level, or equivalent level. (2)  At the time of application, applicant must have 1 year of service in a full-time, permanent appointment as an Army Civilian. (3)  Must sign a continued service agreement for a minimum of three times the length of the training. (4)  Successful completion of the CES Advanced Course or equivalent course. (5)  Nominations must have ACOM, ASCC, DRU, and/or Office of the Administrative Assistant endorsement. d.  Funding. (1)  Nominating commands must fund tuition, travel, per diem, and incidental entitlements allowable by the Joint Travel Regulations. (2)  Central training funds may be used with appropriate functional career representative approval. (3)  Nonappropriated fund employees must check with their respective budget point of contact to ensure that funding is available for this course. 4  21.  Senior Manager Course in National Security Leadership a.  The Senior Manager Course in National Security is a 2-week program designed to provide senior DOD leaders and managers an understanding of the factors and forces that shape national security strategy and policy. The course objective is to improve the management and leadership skills necessary to successfully influence the various processes within DOD. It also provides an opportunity to systematically examine the forces that influence U.S. defense decisionmaking: the inter-agency process, the wider policy community, and threats in the international arena. It also focuses on developing the three critical areas of: (1)  Defense management skills.  Through a range of specially developed sessions in the analytical tools and techniques of policy analysis; (2)  Foundational knowledge.  Through instruction, active learning, policy briefings, and table-top exercises focused on the defense environment; and (3)  Understanding of key issues.  Through instruction, policy briefings, field trips, and site visits. b.  This program is open to GS  14/15 Army Civilians, members of Senior Executive Services, and military O  6 and above. SES employees interested in this program should contact the CSLMO. Military candidates interested in this pro-gram should contact the SLDO, Colonels Management Office, and/or General Officers Management Office. c.  Army eligibility requirements. (1)  Must be on a permanent appointment at the GS  14/15 or equivalent level. (2)  The time of the application, applicant must have 1 year of service in a full-time, permanent appointment as an Army Civilian. (3)  Must sign a continued service agreement for a minimum of three times the length of the training. (4)  Successful completion of the CES Advanced Course or equivalent course. (5)  Nomination packets must contain ACOM, ASCC, DRU, and/or Office of the Administrative Assistant endorsement. This endorsement must state that all eligibility requirements have been met and that command/local resources are available. d.  Funding. (1)  Program tuition is centrally-funded. (2)  Nominating Commands must fund travel, lodging, per diem, and incidental entitlements allowable by the Joint Travel Regulations, unless otherwise noted. (3)  Non-appropriated fund employee must check with their budget point of contact to ensure that funding is available for this course. 4  22.  Senior Leader Seminar: Senior Leader Development Course a.  The Senior Leader Seminar.  SLDC is a 1-week Army leader development course designed to enhance the education of select senior Army O6s, Chief Warrant Officer 5, Command/Sergeants Major, and Army Civilians (GS  15) who are either currently assigned to, or projected for assignment to, key positions as advisors and staff officers for general officers and senior civilian leaders. The Senior Leader Seminar course offers an experience that is both broadening and educational, focused on increasing their preparation for service at the national level. b.  Senior Leader Seminar.  Senior Leader Development Course is the result of an Army Leader Development program initiative coordinated by the Center for Strategic Leadership, USAWC. It is conducted twice annually. c.  Army Civilian eligibility requirements. (1)  Must be on a permanent appointment at the GS  15 or equivalent level. (2)  At the time of application, applicant must have 1 year of service in a full-time, permanent appointment as an Army. (3)  Successful completion of the CES Advanced Course or equivalent course. (4)  Nomination packets must contain ACOM, ASCC, DRU, and/or Office of the Administrative Assistant endorsement. d.  Funding.  This course is centrally funded by the Center for Strategic Leadership, USAWC. Section VI Senior Executive Service Education 4  23.  Senior Executive Service Education, Training and Development a.  The Department of the Army SES members are the Army Civilian equivalent to general officers, and include top executive, managerial, supervisory and political appointment positions. The SES members are individuals who are highly agile and skilled in their function, who can successfully lead a wide spectrum of operations and who are adaptive to chal-lenges. SES members demonstrate technical expertise, confidence, integrity, critical judgment and adaptability. Army Senior Executives can: operate in complex and fluid environments; build teams amid technological changes; provide vision and direction; and solve problems creatively. b.  SES members require a broad core of executive qualifications or abilities in addition to professional, technical and program knowledge and skills. The Office of Personnel Management validated five executive core qualifications required of SES members: leading change, leading people, results driven, business acumen, and building coalitions. c.  The Civilian Senior Leader Management Office (CSLMO), Office of the ASA (M&RA), provides centralized life-cycle management and administration for the Army SES personnel. The CSLMO plans, manages, and executes the Armys SES Education, Training and Development Program with the advice and support of the Armys Executive Resource Board (ERB). The goal of the program is to foster a culture of continuous learning that enhances leadership competencies through education, training and experiences in department, joint, interagency, intergovernmental and multinational environments. d.  The SES Education, Training and Development Program is comprised of: Mandatory Foundation Training, Position Based Training, Advanced Continuing Education, Joint Qualifying Training, Talent and Succession Management (TSM), and ERB results. The SECARMY TSM Board enables the Armys senior leadership to target SES members for compe-tency enhancing developmental assignments. The TSM ensures that an Executives potential is developed through career opportunities and that skills and talent are utilized to meet Army enterprise challenges, both today and in the future. The ERB may identify SES members for developmental assignments, reassignment or further education or training. ERB di-rected education or training takes precedence when prioritizing applicants for constrained course allocations. e.  The Army Senior Executive Education, Training and Development Program is managed through ATRRS School-house, 0120. Senior Executives can view courses offered in the School house by clicking on Executive Education in the left-hand menu of the CSLMO homepage at www.cslmo.army.mil. Senior executives can apply for courses through Ex-ecutive CHRTAS, an application and funding system. A link to Executive CHRTAS is located at the bottom of each course description on the webpage. Questions regarding training and educational opportunities or recommendations on further training programs, can be directed to the CSLMO Training Branch available at cslmotrainingbranch@us.army.mil. f.  Executive Development Plan. Per 5 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) 412.101, all senior executives are required to have an Executive Development Plan (EDP). The EDP is located within the Executive CHRTAS application. Newly ap-pointed Senior Executives will receive an initial EDP that is auto-filled with Mandatory Foundation Training requirements and suspense dates (18 months) for completion. They, in conjunction with their supervisor, can further modify the EDP to meet the new Executives developmental needs. EDPs will also be created for each seasoned senior executive. These EDPs will contain the senior executives training history, which should be validated upon receipt. They also, in collaboration with their supervisors, are required to plan future development using the EDP tool. g.  Newly appointed senior executives are required to attend the following mandatory foundation training within 18 months of appointment to an Army Senior Executive position. Completion of all mandatory foundational training is a new executives first training priority, and all required training must be completed prior to attendance at any discretionary training courses. (1)  Force Integration Course for Senior Leaders.  The course provides a systematic overview of how the Army runs. SES members and general officers, in an integrated training environment, learn the constitutional, statutory and regulatory basis for the force projection Army and the capability that must be sustained through management of doctrinal, organiza-tion and materiel change. They will understand Army organizational roles, functions and missions, especially at the Army secretariat and Staff levels. (2)  Army Senior Leader Communications Workshop.  An Executive Communication Team provides one-on-one media training tailored to the specific needs of each Executive that equips the Senior Leader, who may be called upon to represent the Army, with an understanding of how the media operates and the tools needed to take control of the interview process. The focus of the workshop is to work effectively with the media and to tailor messages to reflect a sense of control and composure during an interview. Test practices are portrayed in this program to prepare Senior Executives for that moment in time when they are thrust into the limelight of national television. (3)  Army Senior Executive Education Program - Basic course.  A program that orients newly appointed Executives to the Army. Army Senior Executives are recruited from a wide variety of sources, from internal promotions to academia, industry and other Federal agencies. As a result, the ASEEP  B Course offers guidance from the Secretary of the Army on Armys critical missions and the expectations of Army Senior Leaders in fulfilling those missions, as well as basic skill sets in how to conduct business, legally and ethically, at the Senior Executive level. ASEEP  B also incorporates Diversity Awareness Training that provides Civilian senior Executives insight into fostering a diverse workforce. (4)  Army Senior Executive Education Program - Intermediate Course.  The Intermediate Course is the second of three programs designed to provide Army executives with a continuous learning program. The ASEEP  I is designed for mid-career Executives who need to desire an opportunity to update and refresh critical Executive competencies. h.  The CSLMO SES Education, Training and Development Program offers Army Senior Executives a wide variety of advanced training and educational opportunities that expand their understanding of Armys mission and enhance critical Executive competencies. Courses range from Department offering in Joint strategy to national security studies from aca-demic institutions and interagency/multi-agency seminars from such organizations as the Department of State. Examples of other course offerings: (1)  APEX Orientation Program.  APEX is DOD's orientation for Executives to the joint working environment. It is appropriate for newly appointed Executives who are within the first 2 years of appointment. The objective of the APEX orientation course is to improve the new Executive's effectiveness on the job through enhanced leadership and decision making strategies, an increased understanding of the Department's structure and processes critical to its operation, the integration of DOD and Component priorities, and by fostering a sense of jointness. Executives will be introduced to: the structure and processes of the OSD, CCMD, Joint Staff and the military departments as they contribute to DOD's mission; the priorities and challenges of other Federal agencies and the Defense industry as they contribute to National Security in partnership with DOD; an enterprise-wide perspective that encompasses leadership expectations and challenges currently facing DOD leaders; and the changing role of the SES corps with the DOD. (2)  Army Strategic Leadership Development Program - Intermediate.  Educates Army senior leaders by providing awareness of the necessary skill sets to be strategic leaders of change and managers of the Army institution/enterprise. Army Strategic Leadership Development ProgramI is a professional development course for selected senior leaders that exposes GO and SES to various types of business practices from the private sector, the military profession and academia. The curriculum includes but is not limited to blocks of instruction on: CSA and GO/SES discussions, business enterprise strategy, strategic human capital management, and leadership and business transformation. There are also prior reading requirements, group projects with report outs to CSA, after-action reviews, mentored seminars, and senior mentors to facilitate discussion and lend expertise. (3)  Army Strategic Leadership Development Program - Advanced.  The Advanced course, developed at the direction of the Chief of Staff of the Army, serves as his vehicle to inform senior leaders of the most critical issues facing Army, focuses on: strategic leadership challenges facing the Army, examining change from the perspective of today's corporate industry leaders, continued development of strategic leadership skills to include strategic communication, developing a strategic vision, dealing with Congress and the Media, and an in-depth discussion on the role of enterprise management. 4  24.  Highly-qualified experts A highly-qualified expert is an individual possessing expert knowledge or skills not available within the DOD that is needed to satisfy an emerging and relatively short-term, non-permanent requirement. Highly-qualified experts are recruited from a variety of sources for their specific skills and as such are eligible to attend one mandatory foundation training course or force integration for senior leaders course, to understand how the Army runs and how the force is manned. Section VII Records, Responsibilities Resources and Process 4  25.  Training records and documentation a.  Individual Development Plans will be developed and updated annually in the Army Career Tracker (ACT) for all Army Civilians (excluding acquisition workforce). b.  The Standard Form (SF) 182 (Authorization Agreement and Certification of Training), will be used to approve, procure, and certify completion and evaluation of training for Army Civilian employees obtained from Federal Govern-ment or non-Government facilities. This includes training or education courses, conventions, conferences, symposiums, meetings, workshops, and other events if the primary reason for the activity is to train or develop Army Civilians to meet mission needs. The SF 182 may not be used to procure general supplies, training equipment, or non-training services. NOTE: Organizational required/HQDA mandatory training/command directed training of less than 40 hours should be captured/documented in accordance with accompanying guidance. c.  Completion/submission of the SF 181 (Ethnicity and Race Identification), is strictly voluntary. It will be used for statistical purposes only, not for purposes of determining eligibility for participation in any training opportunity. d.  The DCS, G  3/5/7 (Civilian Training and Leader Development Division) Reporting Requirement  Program/Course local command/career program board selection results must be made available to the DCS, G  3/5/7 (Civilian Training and Leader Development Division) when requested. e.  Documented training and selection records, to include funding documents, will be maintained for 6 years, 3 months. 4  26.  Supervisors and managers a.  Supervisors are responsible for the training and education of Army Civilians, identifying capability requirements and competency gaps, recommending employees for training, coaching and counseling employees and setting performance objectives that include training and educational opportunities. b.  Supervisors are required to: (1)  Ensure all applicants approved for training have a current performance appraisal on record. (2)  Ensure Army Civilians have a current performance rating of successful or above and be in good conduct standing. (3)  Ensure employees who are on performance improvement plans are not considered for competitive professional development funding. (4)  Ensure each of their supervised employees will have an updated annual IDP with education and training require-ments documented. c.  Observe merit principles in selecting employees for training as specified in 5 USC 2301. 4  27.  Resourcing Army Civilian training a.  Training for Army Civilians is funded through various sources including, but not limited to the following sources: (1)  Department of Defense Interagency funded training. (2)  ACTEDS-managed by HQDA to support leader development and functional training. b.  ACTEDS funds may be used for permanent local national employees of comparable pay grades (when their salaries are funded with OMA dollars), USAR, ARNG, and USACE Civil Works and cemeteries funded employees registered in a career program and meeting all other eligibility requirements. c.  Local national employees whose salaries are funded from other appropriations may apply for competitive profes-sional development training opportunities, but the respective organization must fund associated training costs. d.  GoArmyEd is the training management system for Army Civilians to apply for most centrally managed and centrally-funded competitive professional development training, education and leader development events. Army Civilians, super-visors, career program managers, and training managers must have active accounts in Army Career Tracker and GoArmyEd in order to apply for and approve training. e.  Proponent-funded training.  Centralized training funds, managed by the functional proponent external to HQDA central funding; f.  Command-funded training.  Command managed training funds for Army Civilians within their respective commands, irrespective of series or grade. g.  Installation/locally-funded training.  Training that is normally technically/functionally oriented and supported by the individuals activity. h.  Personally-funded  : Training completed during non-duty status that is funded by the employee for the purpose of their own personal and professional development. 4  28.  Authorized training expenses a.  When training is approved in advance, the following expenses may be paid. (1)  All or part of necessary expenses for approved training, including travel and per diem, and transportation to/from the training site in accordance with provisions of Joint Travel Regulations. (2)  Tuition and matriculation fees; library and laboratory services, purchase or rental of books, materials, and supplies; and other services or facility costs directly related to the training of the employee. (3)  Membership fees only if the fee is a condition of attending the training. b.  Payment of application fees, registration fees, graduation fees, testing fees, evaluation fees (for example, granting course credit for life experience), is not authorized for ACTEDS funding. Commands or installations may fund these expenses when approved before the event. c.  HQDA ACTEDS funds may be used to fund one annual Career Program Planning Board meeting, to include related travel expenses, as long as the purpose of the board is to improve the conduct, supervision, or management of Career Program functions and activities. d.  Only officials with budget authority may approve the use of appropriated funds or funds otherwise available to the DA to pay expenses for obtaining training courses and/or certificates. e.  TDY and local travel for ACTEDS-funded training is administered as follows: (1)  TDY and local travel expenses for approved competitive professional development training are centrally funded by DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division). Per diem allowance for travel from home station to the training site and travel back to home station upon completion of training is not authorized unless approved in advance. (2)  Per diem rates include a maximum amount of lodging expenses. Reimbursement may not exceed actual lodging costs or the applicable maximum amount. Receipts for lodging are required. (3)  Reimbursement for baggage fee is authorized. Reimbursement is limited to 1 bag for training 2 weeks or less, 2 bags for training over 2 weeks. (4)  Reimbursement to and from the training site is authorized. In/around mileage; public/local transportation (except for travel to/from home to training location); rental cars, vans, trucks, or limousines; and excess baggage is not authorized. (5)  Travelers must file a Defense Travel System settlement voucher within 5 business days upon completion of travel. Travelers on long-term training must select scheduled partial payments. Receipts for all centrally-funded authorized ex-penses, regardless of cost, must be provided with the voucher; lodging receipts must be provided regardless of costs. 4  29.  Repayment of training expenses a.  An employee will be required to repay all training costs, including travel, if they (1)  Fail to attend or complete training already paid for by the government for which the vendor will not refund payment, (2)  Complete training but fail to receive a passing grade (C or higher for undergraduate level courses and B or higher for graduate level courses, or pass in the case of pass/fail), or (3)  Fail to complete the terms outlined in their continued service agreement. b.  DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division) is the proponent for the waiver/recoup process for HQDA centrally-funded training instances. c.  Commands and/or activities are responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring the waiver/recoupment process for recapturing costs for training that is fully funded by the command when any of the conditions in paragraph 429a occur. Requests for waivers of repayment, to include continued service obligations, may only be granted by the first general officer or SES within the employees chain of command. Proper documentation must be maintained for 6 years, 3 months after the date a request for waiver is evaluated/granted.  d.  The SF 182 is the Armys official document for requesting, approving and documenting training. If an employee attends a training event prior to receiving official approval, to include a fund citation, they will be responsible for all associated training costs. 4  30.  Continued service agreement a.  In accordance with 5 CFR 410.309, the head of the agency (Army) will establish written procedures which include the minimum requirements for continued service agreements. Army Civilian selected for non-Government training in ex-cess of 40 hours, or Government training/developmental assignments in excess of 160 hours must sign an agreement to continue service in the Department of the Army before training begins. The period of service obligation will be equal to at least three times the length of the training period, at a minimum. Command or career program funding the training may require more time based on associated training costs. Calculation of the continued service obligation period will not include weekends or federal holidays. The obligation period begins on the first duty day following the completion of training, or program of study. b.  Employees who voluntarily separate from Army service (to include transfer of service to another DOD Component or other organization in any branch of the Federal Government) or are involuntarily separated, for cause or poor perfor-mance, before completing the agreed period of service will be required to reimburse the Army, on a pro rata basis, for all associated training and travel cost (excluding salary or other compensation). When in the best interest of the Government, or when contrary to equity and good conscience, or the public interest, Army may transfer the service obligation to the gaining DOD Component or other organization in the federal government, or may waive any part of the employees obli-gation to pay training expenses. c.  Requests for full or partial waiver of the Armys right to recover training cost (to include travel), or an appeal for transfer of service obligation, must be submitted in memorandum format through the employees chain of command and the respective Career Program to DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division). (1)  For consideration, HQDA must be notified at least 20 working days before the effective date of employees transfer of service to the new organization, in order for Army to determine recoverable costs, or request will be denied. (2)  At a minimum, the memorandum will include the name of the course/ program, date(s) of training, total cost of training (including travel costs), and a detailed explanation reflecting why the employee did not attend training, did not successfully complete the training, or failed to complete requirements of the continued service agreement. A copy of the approved SF182 (to include the continued service agreement), that authorized the training event must be included with the request for waiver of repayment. d.  DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division) will review requests for waivers of re-payment of training expenses and determine if an employee is obligated to repay all or any portion of training costs, or transfer service to the new agency and provide a recommendation to the DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Director of Training) for decision. HQDA will provide timely notification of decision through the functional career representative prior to em-ployees effective date with the gaining agency. e.  The functional career representative is responsible for notifying the command/employee and ensuring repayment instructions are followed, as directed. Any amount that may be due to the Army as a result of the employees failure to meet the terms of the CSA, may be withheld from any monies owed the employee by the Government, or may be recovered by such other methods as are approved by law. f.  Requests for waivers of repayment of training costs for command/organization funded training instances must be approved by the first general officer or SES within the employees chain of command. g.  The ASA M&RA is the sole approving authority for request for waiver of Academic Degree Training (ADT) cost. For command funded ADT, request for waiver of training cost must be submitted in memorandum format through the employees chain of command and G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division to ASA M&RA. For Career Program funded ADT, requests must be submitted through the respective FCR and G  37 to ASA M&RA. h.  The Department of the Army is committed to making its electronic and information technologies accessible to indi-viduals with disabilities in accordance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 USC 794d), as amended in 1998. For more information about Section 508, please visit the DOD Section 508 website: http://dodcio.defense.gov/home.aspx. 4  31.  Outside the continental United States training for employees stationed in the continental United States a.  In accordance with DODI 1400.25, the use of foreign training, education, or professional development instrumental-ities for Army Civilians located within the U.S. requires coordination with the Defense Civilian Personnel Advisory Ser-vice and consultation between the DOD and State. Such requests must contain command endorsement and be submitted to DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division) at least 120 days prior start date of requested activity. Upon review/concurrence, and not later than 90 days prior to start date of requested activity, DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division) will forward such request to Defense Civilian Personnel Ad-visory Service for further processing. b.  Requests must include: (1)  Travelers name, organization, passport number, passport expiration date, date of birth, and place of birth. (2)  Program location. (3)  Program course/activity title (4)  Dates of travel (to and from country). (5)  Lodging information (to include phone number). (6)  Point of contact in country and phone number. (7)  Any special accommodation requirements. (8)  Justification comments. Address how the use of foreign training, education, or professional development (TE&PD) instrumentality is necessary to support Armys Strategic Human Capital Plan or other Army goals, and that comparable training, education, or professional development is not available within the United States or that attendance at foreign TE&PD is critical to achieving the DOD mission. c.  All requests for OCONUS training must be submitted to DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/TRV), 450 Army Pentagon, Room 2D639, Washington, DC 20310  0450 at least 120 days before training/ travel is scheduled to commence. d.  Coordination between the Defense Civilian Personnel Advisory Service and State will confirm the foreign TE&PD facility is eligible to provide services. Eligibility must be determined before use of a TE&PD facility and at least once every 3 years thereafter. e.  DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division) will review requests for regulatory com-pliance and forward to the Defense Civilian Personnel Advisory Service to confirm the foreign training, education, or professional development facility is eligible to provide services. 4  32.  Non-Government training sources a.  In accordance with DOD 7000.14R, Volume 10 (Chapter 12Miscellaneous payments), and local contracting policy, Army activities may purchase training, education, and professional development services provided they have an approved SF 182 (to include fund citation). b.  Additionally, the following requirements must be met: (1)  The program, course, product or instructional service is provided by off-the-shelf services that are commercially available and require no modification resulting in increased cost to the Government. (2)  Cost of a single program, course, product or service, excluding travel and per diem, does not exceed $25,000. (3)  For purchases exceeding $3,000, but not exceeding $25,000, a comparison of prices must be undertaken to deter-mine price reasonableness, and a justification of source selection must be documented. (4)  Individuals with delegated purchasing authority that have completed training on procedures for purchasing services using SF 182 and/or other approved purchase processes. (5)  Any purchase exceeding $25,000 must be coordinated with a local warranted contracting officer. 4  33.  Prohibited practices a.  Premium pay.  Premium pay to an employee engaged in training, education and professional development activities is prohibited, except as provided by 5 CFR 410.402. b.  Concurrent benefits.  In accordance with 38 USC 3681, an employee engaged in training, education or professional development paid for by a DOD Component may not receive benefit from another source for the same course (for example, former military members may not benefit from both the use of Army central training funds and Army GI Bill for the same course/program). c.  Academic institutions.  Academic institutions that prevent Senior ROTC access or military recruiting on campuses are ineligible to receive Federal funds, except as provided by 10 USC 983(c) or 10 USC 983(d)(2). d.  Individual memberships.  An employee may not be reimbursed for the cost of individual membership fees or dues in a professional organization in accordance with 5 USC 5946. e.  Activities offensive to employees.  Appropriated funds may not be used for any training, education and professional development activity that is offensive to employees and unnecessary in the execution of current or anticipated duties. The restrictions apply to activities that could induce high levels of emotional response or psychological stress; do not require prior employee notification of the content and methods to be used in the activity and written end-of course evaluations; contain any methods or content associated with religious or quasi-religious belief systems or new age belief systems; or is offensive to, or designed to change participants personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace. Section 12 of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Compliance Manual, on Religious Discrimination (www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/compliance.cfm) provides guidance. f.  Payment/reimbursement of voluntary memberships.  Payment or reimbursement for expenses of voluntary member-ships in professional organizations of already credentialed employees is prohibited. Payment or reimbursement may be made for expenses of employees attendance at a meeting or conventions which is concerned with the functions or activities which DOD appropriations for travel expenses were made, or which will contribute to improve conduct, supervision, or management of those functions or activities. g.  Payment or reimbursement for initiation fees or periodic dues for membership in a professional organization or ex-penses for attendance of a member at meetings to conventions of the organization is prohibited unless membership or attendance is a prerequisite to acquiring or maintaining a required professional credential. 4  34.  Training during the duty day a.  Training is authorized during duty hours, when it is approved by the supervisor. An employee may take one or more courses in a college, university, or other educational institution when the supervisor determines that rearranging the em-ployees tour of duty will not appreciably interfere with accomplishment of work the employee is required to perform; additional costs for personal services will not be incurred; and completion of the course(s) will equip the employee for more effective work in the agency. Supervisors and managers are responsible for establishing guidelines that allow em-ployees duty time to complete portions of approved training courses funded by the Army. b.  Guidelines can be in the form of a written or verbal agreement and should articulate a study schedule and timeline for the employee to complete the course. c.  Training made available to employees as a voluntary self-development tool will be undertaken by the employee outside regular working hours and will not be considered hours of work, nor will the employee receive any form of com-pensation (that is, compensatory time). The Army may not pay the employee any premium pay solely because the special tour of duty causes the employee to work on a day, or at a time during the day, for which premium pay would otherwise be payable. d.  Supervisors should maintain records of employee training during the duty day. e.  All payments or reimbursements for expenses and all grants of administrative leave are discretionary (that is, not an employee requirement) and should be based on organizational need, talent availability, and other mission-related criteria. 4  35.  Conferences and workshops a.  The DA may fund conferences or workshops which meet the legal definition of training. In accordance with 5 CFR 410.404, to determine if a conference is a training activity, it must: (1)  Have an announced purpose that the conference/meeting is educational or instructional; (2)  Have more than half (at least 51 percent) of the time scheduled for a planned, organized exchange of information between presenters and audience which meets the definition of training in 5 USC 4101; (3)  Reflect that the content of the conference is germane to improving individual and/or organizational performance, and; (4)  Provide developmental benefits that will be derived through the employees attendance. b.  FCRS approving and/or funding conferences/workshops must ensure that all requirements are met, and that approval documentation is maintained for a period of 6 years, 3 months for reporting purposes. c.  Commands approving and/or funding conferences/workshops must ensure that all requirements are met, and that approval documentation is maintained for a period of 6 years, 3 months for reporting purposes. d.  Conferences/workshops/group training (when the purchase of training facilities or services are to be purchases) that meet the definition of training must be requested/approved PRIOR to attendance using the SF 182 regardless of the funding source. e.  Conference attendance must be approved in accordance with current Army and DOD conference policies. 4  36.  Credentials and certifications a.  Pursuant to 5 USC 4109, funds may be authorized to pay for approved training related to obtaining or maintaining credentials or certifications for a career program employees current job position. ACTEDS funds may not be authorized to pay for expenses related to obtaining or maintaining professional credentials. b.  Army commanders and the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Army have been delegated authority to approve payment for expenses to obtain professional credentials, including expenses for professional accreditation, pro-fessional licenses, certification and examinations to obtain such credentials. This applies to both appropriated fund and non-appropriated fund employees. There is no special funding provision for this program; the cost of the (credential or certification) repayment will come from the approving activitys budget and will not be funded with ACTEDS funds. c.  Payment for employee credential/certification documents will be conducted on a reimbursable basis, and must be officially approved, via an SF 182, prior to successful receipt of the credential/certification. Reimbursement will be through GFEBS to the local resource management office. Reimbursement of expenses may not be retroactive. d.  Payment of expenses under this authority is not an entitlement. Continued payment of expenses associated with licenses and certification is discretionary and not guaranteed. e.  Reimbursement of expenses will only be made for successful completions and may not be retroactive. f.  DCPDS will be used for recording payments for licenses, certifications, and related expenses. DCPDS will also be used to evaluate such payments. g.  ACOMs, ASCCs, DRUs, the Office of the Administrative Assistant, and functional career representative will provide DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/Civilian Training and Leader Development Division) with the name, position title/series/grade, costs, and ethnicity and race identification information (from SF 181), if available, for all Army reimbursements related to professional credentials, upon request. h.  HQDA Central Training Funds will not be used to pay for licenses or credentials. i.  An employee may not be reimbursed for the cost of individual membership fees or dues in a professional organization except as authorized in 5 USC 4109 and 5 USC 4110. 4  37.  Contract training courses a.  When approved by the appropriate TNGDEVs, Soldiers and Army Civilians may attend vocational or technical courses at Civilian institutions. Schools may submit requests through their appropriate chain of command to lease facilities and equipment from Civilian institutions. Alternatively, Civilian institutions may provide institutional services at the school. The following conditions must exist to use contract training. (1)  The occupational specialty is determined to be appropriate for contract training by the training proponent. (2)  The course will train all, or a significant portion of, the tasks and supporting skills and knowledge necessary to qualify the student in the occupational specialty for which training is required. (3)  The requesting agency will ensure that the POI offered by the contractor is consistent with Army standards. b.  Development of NET course materials and the presentation of NET courses may be accomplished through the use of contractors. The NET manager, in coordination with the project manager/PM, and TNGDEV, has the authority to ap-prove use of contractor training for new, improved, or modified systems. TRADOC, MEDCOM, AMC, USACE, USASOC, SMDC/ARSTRAT, and USACIDC have authority to approve the use of contractor training in occupational skills for which they are responsible. 4  38.  Sabbaticals a.  Sabbaticals are authorized absences from duty, without charge to pay or leave, that may be granted to a SES career appointee to engage in study or uncompensated work experience (see 5 USC 3396(c)(1)). b.  Sabbaticals are used to provide a 10 USC faculty member who has completed six or more Army civilian service years as full-time faculty member at any Army schools authorized 10 USC hiring paid opportunities to engage in significant research or professional development activities, or to develop areas of expertise, or to conduct scholarly activities of par-ticular benefit to the schools mission. c.  Eligibility criteria, procedures, and policy are determined by each respective school. 4  39.  Exception to Army Civilian training policy requests Requests for exception to Army Civilian training policy must be submitted in memorandum format to the DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/TRV, Chief, Civilian Training and Leader Development Division), 450 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  0450. Memorandums must be officially staffed through command channels and contain the endorsement/concur-rence of the requesting individual's Army Command Headquarters (ACOM, ASSC, DRU, and OAASA), (and Functional Chief Representative, only if CP- funded) prior to forwarding to DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/TRV). Official response to requests (approvals/disapprovals) will be provided through the respective Army Command Headquarters or Career Program Office, as applicable. Chapter 5 Training in Units and Organizations Section I Training and Leader Development in Units 5  1.  General policy a.  Training is the cornerstone of unit readiness and readiness is the commanders top priority. As the primary unit trainers, commanders must develop their leaders to extract the greatest training value from every opportunity in every activity in order to build combat readiness and prepare their units and Soldiers to rapidly deploy and accomplish their decisive action missions. Commanders must remain responsible for the professional development of their Civilians and Soldiers at all ranks. They must deliberately plan, prepare, execute, and assess training and leader development as part of their overall unit training program. Commander responsibilities include: (1)  Ensuring their unit can perform its mission essential tasks the unit was designed to perform during a range of military operations in a Decisive Action Training Environment, and when assigned, other missions. (2)  Ensuring unit level leader training, education and development activities focus on leaders performing current as-signed responsibilities and mission proficiency, to include leveraging: Officer Professional Development sessions, Non-commissioned Officer Professional Development Program (NCOPDP) sessions, and Sergeants Time Training. (3)  Once commanders are confident that leaders can perform mission essential tasks to standard, leader training for current positions can shift to leader development for increased responsibilities in the future through the appropriate PME courses and functional courses. b.  Commanders are responsible for working with Army Civilians to ensure that they receive the appropriate training at the right points in their careers. Like military personnel, civilian development blends formal training, on-the-job training, developmental assignments, and self-development activities. AR 690  950, Civilian Management and Army Civilian Training, Education and Development System (ACTEDS) are tools for commanders to support career development throughout their careers. c.  Predictable training environment.  The army implements the new tasking policy that will lock-out external taskings that affect the training schedules of brigades and their subordinate units in order to protect a 6-week (45 days) lock-in period (RA) (company level) and 13-week (90 day) lock-in period (RC) (company level) for training time for commanders at brigade and below, and discipline the tasking process for any requirement imposed on brigade and below units. DCS, G  3/5/7 is designated the approval authority for directed Army requirements that impact brigade and below MTOE unit training calendars. Additionally, DCS, G  3/5/7 will publish a consolidated listing of all enduring army requirements that impact brigade and below MTOE unit training calendars. Training requirements (collective and individual requirements) will not be published without a standard training and evaluation outline (T&EO). The following types of taskings are exempt from the tasking policy notification timelines and waiver authorities as follows: global force management or op-erational mission requirements, to include: SECDEF approved requests for forces, requests for support or assistance, re-quirements for worldwide individual augmentation in support of joint manning documents, tasks in support of civil au-thorities or other government agencies, and safety of use messages (SOUM). d.  Regular Army.  Tasks from HQDA to ACOM, ASCC, and DRU impacting training calendars for brigade and below MTOE units must be directed not later than 180 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 180 days prior to execution is the VCSA. (1)  Tasks from ACOM, ASCC, and DRU to Corps impacting training calendars for brigade and below MTOE units must be directed not later than 150 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 150 days prior to execution is the ACOM, ASCC, or DRU commander. (2)  Tasks from corps to division and command level headquarters impacting training calendars for brigade and below MTOE units must be directed not later than 120 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 120 days prior to execution is the corps commander. (3)  Tasks from division and command level headquarters to brigades must be directed not later than 90 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 90 days prior to execution is the division commander. (4)  Tasks from brigades to battalion must be directed not later than 60 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 60 days prior to execution is the brigade commander. (5)  Tasks from battalion to company must be directed not later than 45 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 45 days prior to execution is the battalion commander. e.  Reserve.  Tasks from HQDA to ACOM, ASCC, and DRU impacting training calendars for brigade and below MTOE units must be directed not later than 180 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 180 days prior to execution is the VCSA. (1)  Tasks from ACOM, ASCC, and DRU to reserve commands impacting training calendars for brigade and below MTOE units must be directed not later than 165 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 165 days prior to execution is the ACOM, ASCC, or DRU commander. (2)  Tasks from reserve commands to brigades and groups must be directed not later than 150 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 150 days prior to execution is the reserve command commander. (3)  Tasks from brigades and groups to battalions must be directed not later than 120 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 120 days prior to execution is the brigade or group commander. (4)  Tasks from battalion to company must be directed not later than 90 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 90 days prior to execution is the battalion commander. f.  Guard.  Request tasks from HQDA thru NGB to ARNG (coordination authority) impacting training calendars for brigade and below MTOE units be directed not later than 180 days prior to execution. Waiver authority for tasks less than 180 days prior to execution is the VCSA. (1)  Request tasks (notification of requirement) from NGB or ARNG (coordination authority) to TAG (JFHQ) impacting training calendars for brigade and below MTOE units be directed not later than 165 days prior to execution. Recommended waiver authority for tasks less than 165 days prior to execution is the Director, ARNG. (2)  Request tasks from JFHQ (TAG) to EAB (division and command) and brigade be directed not later than 150 days prior to execution. Recommended waiver authority for tasks less than 150 days prior to execution is the TAG. (3)  Request tasks from brigades to battalion be directed not later than 120 days prior to execution. Recommended waiver authority for tasks less than 120 days prior to execution is the brigade commander. (4)  Request tasks from battalion to company be directed not later than 90 days prior to execution. Recommended waiver authority for tasks less than 90 days prior to execution is the battalion commander. g.  FM 7  0 expands on the fundamental training policy and guidance outlines in this chapter. Section II Planning Unit Training 5  2.  Training Readiness a.  Unit training will always focus on the units standard METL. Standard METLs can be found on the ATN, DTMS and CATS. When CCDR and ASCC driven missions require tasks beyond a units standard METL, the unit and higher headquarters will conduct a mission analysis and adjust the METs and SCTs to establish an assigned METL in order to attain proficiency and accomplish the assigned missions. The combination of focused training tasks and conditions sup-ports rapid assembly of force packages, and minimizes required additional training for the most probable assigned mis-sions. b.  A commander develops training and leader development guidance in accordance with doctrinal products (see ADP/ADRP/FM 7  0). The training and leader development guidance is prepared by the higher commander to provide subordinate commanders training focus and direction for the unit long-range plan. Additionally, training and leader devel-opment guidance provides the higher commander a way of providing direction on the right tasks, conditions and standards to attain unit METL proficiency. Unit training programs will (1)  Instill the Soldiers confidence in: (a)  Their doctrine. (b)  Their leaders. (c)  Their equipment. (d)  Themselves. (2)  Support force generation readiness requirements/timelines. (3)  Ensure unit proficiency in mission essential tasks the unit was designed to perform across the range of military operations in a Decisive Action Training Environment. When assigned, ensure proficiency in other mission(s). (4)  Address requirements of the Army training programs described in this chapter. c.  Training readiness stems from attaining proficiency in individual and collective tasks. To do that, unit commanders develop their UTP, focusing on the tasks to train, based on the higher commanders guidance. CATS provide a task-based, event-driven focus on METL-based training and are synchronized to support readiness reporting requirements. They are designed to train a unit to perform its missions, employment, capabilities and functions and contain all the collective tasks designed to train the unit. Training events in the CATS provide recommendations of the methods and objective standards that must be employed to effectively train those tasks. Training events are often designed to suggest a sequential training path so that commanders can select the appropriate level of event difficulty to match the units level of proficiency at executing the collective tasks associated with that task set. CATS are nested crew-level to BCT and brigade, integrate DA Pam 350  38 and provide recommendations on who, what, how and the frequency to train. They provide recommendations on use of TADSS, training gates, multi-echelon training, resources and provide a base line purpose, outcome and execution guidance for each event. They provide a strategy from which leaders can extract a unit training plan based on the units assigned missions and readiness requirements. d.  Commanders will ensure the following training and Army training management system tools are understood and used: (1)  The ATN web-based portal links to Army training doctrine, processes, and resources, and is the primary access point for CATS and DTMS, available at https://atn.army.mil. (2)  Doctrine for planning and conducting training (see ADP/ADRP 7  0, and FM 7  0). (3)  DTMS is a web-based planning and management tool (https://dtms.army.mil) that facilitates an organizations abil-ity to plan, resource, and track individual and collective training and access to Army standard training products. DTMS is the only authorized automated system for managing, recording training, and establishing unit assessments for Army units. (4)  Total Ammunition Management Information System for managing training ammunition. (5)  Army published training strategies for the unit (CATS and Army Weapons Strategies/DA Pam 350  38 (STRAC)). (6)  Training support packages, drills, and Soldiers Manuals of Common Tasks. (7)  Training capabilities (for example, training aids devices, simulators, simulations, etc.) available to unit leaders through the TSS (see chap 6). e.  Commanders and leaders must manage the use of available training resources to attain required capability levels against an assigned mission. Cost-effective training techniques must be aggressively pursued, keeping in mind that every training requirement and expenditure of resources should contribute directly to combat readiness. Army-approved training strategies are designed to make best use of live-virtual-constructive training capabilities to efficiently build and sustain unit proficiency. Army-approved training strategies use a sequentially progressive approach to individual and collective training, gradually progressing to increasingly complex events with more realistic/resource intensive conditions. For ex-ample, Soldiers perform to standard on the conduct-of-fire trainer before proceeding to full-service gunnery. f.  The senior commander prioritizes an installations training enablers that are critical to unit commanders training program. h.  It is the commanders responsibility to plan, prepare, execute and assess unit training plans which not only result in a unit proficient in executing mission essential tasks, but which incorporate low-density or small section training opportu-nities to ensure/improve individual task proficiencies and contribute to overall unit readiness. Commanders and small section leaders should also emphasize the use of ATN to access COE network hosted products to further develop MOS based skills. 5  3.  Assessments and evaluations of performance a.  Commanders will use T&EOs, with T/T-/P/P-/U ratings, to continuously assess unit performance, whether during training or actual operations, to identify reasons for performance success and shortfalls. T&EO assessments will be rec-orded in DTMS. Performance shortfalls caused by a lack of skill or knowledge are addressed by training. b.  Additionally, before developing unit training plans and before reporting unit readiness under the provisions of AR 220  1, commanders assess unit capability in mission essential tasks. To assess unit proficiency, commanders and leaders use feedback from evaluations of performance as compared to standards during training events. Proficiency shortfalls are addressed by the unit training program. c.  Every training event includes an evaluation of task performance compared to the standard, whether formal or infor-mal, by internal or external personnel. Personal feedback is provided to those performing the task using after action re-views. The responsibility for developing evaluation plans and conducting evaluations is assigned during the planning phase for all training events. The tasks, conditions, and standards (derived from T&EO,CATS, drills, Soldiers manuals, or other sources and stated as training objectives) provide performance measures for the conduct of evaluations framed against a Decisive Action Training Environment. T&EO assessed during training events will be recorded in DTMS. d.  The after action review is a structured review process that allows participants to discover how and why certain events actually happened and how to improve future task performance. The reviews focus on training/operational objectives, on performance according to Army standards, and on discovering lessons learned for sustaining and improving collective and individual task proficiency. Feedback on lessons learned is provided to unit personnel and Army lessons learned processes. Records from the AAR will be retained at the unit level. e.  Formal, external unit evaluations (EXEVALs) are required for all units.  Regular Army units will conduct EXEVALs at least annually and RC units will conduct EXEVALs during years 2, 3, and 4 of a 4-year training cycle or during years 3, 4, and 5 of a five-year training cycle. EXEVALs are used to validate readiness for operational deployment or to validate readiness for a specific mission. CTC rotations provide a Decisive Action Training Environment  which  enables  a  com-mander  to  assess  his  readiness  for  future  readiness  requirements (see also para 117e). f.  Commanders assessments, with approval from the next higher commander, are used to gauge unit training readiness in achieving goals and progressing through the training model. 5  4.  Recording military training a.  All individual and collective training will be maintained in DTMS. DTMS contains the ITR for Soldiers. The ITR should consists of diplomas, certificates of training (DA Form 87), weapons qualification scorecards, physical fitness test scorecards (DA Form 705), body fat content worksheet (DA Form 5500 and DA Form 5501), information from DA Form 3349 (Physical Profile), records of HQDA mandatory training, and other records of training governed by this regulation. Every military unit commander will maintain ITRs to assist in Soldier readiness and facilitate the electronic transfer of Soldier training records during reassignment. Other Soldier or leader training records may be maintained for the purpose of assisting the commander to develop the unit training program. All individual and collective training in institutional schools will be documented in DTMS. Further details on maintaining training records are found in appendix F. b.  Leaders will maintain the ITR using DTMS, as required, to maintain administrative and personal information and Soldier proficiency in specific MOS, ASI, SI, weapons qualification and common tasks that support performance of the unit METL. Information is transferred with the Soldier on reassignment through DTMS. c.  Each organization employing Army Civilian personnel will maintain training records of employee unit training using DTMS and ensure documentation in DCPDS. Organizations will ensure submission of training completion documentation to the official Army Civilian database. d.  Pre-deployment training documentation. All pre-deployment individual and collective training must be documented using DTMS. In instances where CCDR specific pre-deployment training is not tracked in DTMS, the unit must maintain a record of completion and provide notification through the chain of command to the ASCC to validate readiness prior to deployment. e.  Units will maintain and manage their unit METL to include MET (and SCT as applicable) assessments in DTMS. 5  5.  Headquarters, Department of the Army Mandatory training in units a.  Because of their importance to overall force readiness, training on certain subject matters is mandated by HQDA and will be recorded as part of the ITR. b.  HQDA mandatory training is required for all members of units, regardless of branch/career field or rank/grade. HQDA Mandatory training requirements are limited to those subject areas directed by HQDA. The DCS, G  3/5/7 main-tains centralized control over HQDA mandatory training requirements and reviews them as necessary. Appendix F and table F1 summarize HQDA mandatory training requirements for units. This training will be documented in DTMS on the ITR.  c.  Echelons below HQDA (ACOMs, ASCCs, DRUs) can designate command directed training within their organi-zations, however, it should not be redundant of HQDA mandatory training. 5  6.  Collective training-terms of reference a.  Operational tempo.  OPTEMPO is the Army program that provides the critical resources required for MTOE units to conduct collective training, maintain unit equipment and sustain routine, day-to-day operations. It is the MTOE unit commanders primary means of resourcing his unit training and readiness. OPTEMPO includes the fuel, repair parts, sup-plies and transportation that units consume while conducting collective training. OPTEMPO resourcing is based on Army approved unit-level training strategies. The approved training strategies are resourced using the Training Resource Model that packages the OPTEMPO resourcing requirements in budgets and programs. b.  OPTEMPO management instructions.  OPTEMPO management Instructions provide guidance on HQDA manage-ment oversight and controls of OPTEMPO execution and reporting. These controls address the migration of funds, execu-tion of collective training strategies, and reporting of OPTEMPO metrics. Accurate reporting (ground miles, flying hours and OPTEMPO dollars) is essential to the integrity and credibility of Army OPTEMPO requirements. It is vitally important for all commands to understand the significance of this execution data, adhere to the instructions and take all measures to validate the accuracy of unit training execution. c.  A proficient unit.  See also paragraph 117. d.  Training sites. (1)  Home station.  All training conducted in locations exclusive of the CTCs, TRADOC Institutions, or deployed loca-tions. Home station = Local + Regional. MTC support both local and regional selected training sites. (a)  Local.  Unit stationing locations and readily accessible nearby training areas (for example, RA installations, Reserve Centers, Armories, etc.). (b)  Regional.  Geographically dispersed training locations that provide collective training enablers and/or maneuver space not available at the units local training areas. Regional collective training capability (RCTC) is the enterprise ap-proach to focus Training support system (TSS) capability to enable collective training. (2)  National.  CTCs. The Armys CTC Program comprises the MCTP, JMRC, JRTC, and the NTC. A CTC rotation is all training events conducted through the Armys CTC Program in accordance with AR 350  50. 5  7.  Predeployment and redeployment training requirements a.  CCDRs, through their assigned ASCC, specify any training requirements associated with a request for forces. FORSCOM will analyze requirements and provide training guidance for forces. This process will be reviewed and updated as frequently as required to validate CCDR training requirements and ensure relevance. This process will provide the force with the most up to date pre-deployment training guidance for theaters of operation based on CCDR, ASCC, DOD, and HQDA guidance and directives. b.  Force providers (ASCCs in accordance with FORSCOM guidance) validate readiness of deploying forces to meet these requirements. c.  Additional HQDA-directed requirements are located in appendix F. d.  The DCS, G  1 personnel guidance for Overseas Contingency Operations provides detailed guidance to ACOMs, ASCCs, DRUs, senior commanders, power projection platforms, power support platforms, and personnel support centers pertaining to military (RA and RC) and Army Civilian personnel, who are activated, mobilized, employed, or deployed in support of contingency operations. The personnel guidance can be found at the DCS, G  1 website at: http://www.armyg1.army.mil/militarypersonnel/ppg.asp. e.  As part of the personnel guidance, all personnel deploying for 90 days or more will conduct Deployment Cycle Support operations. Deployment Cycle Support is a comprehensive process that ensures Soldiers, Army Civilians, and their Families are better prepared and sustained throughout deployments. Deployment cycle support guidance and task checklists are available at the HQDA, deployment cycle support, DCS, G  1 website at: http://www.armyg1.army.mil/dcs/default.asp. Section III Leader Development in Units 5  8.  Leader development in units a.  In order to maintain combat ready units, the Army must develop technically and tactically competent leaders who have confidence in themselves and their subordinates. Commanders are responsible for training and leader development in their units, and for providing a climate in which learning can take place. They must deliberately plan, prepare, execute, and assess training and leader development as part of their overall unit training program. b.  Unit training management hosted on the ATN describes the components of a unit leader training and leader devel-opment program. The commanders leader development program addresses officers, WOs, NCOs, and Army Civilians. AR 600  100 provide background on the Armys leadership philosophy and policies. Doctrinal products, ADRP 6  22, are the basic manuals for Army Leadership. c.  The commanders primary responsibility is to ensure the unit can perform its mission essential tasks the unit was designed to perform during a range of military operations in a Decisive Action Training Environment, and when assigned, another mission. Accordingly, the commander primarily focuses leader training and development activities on mission performance, to include officer professional development sessions, noncommissioned officer professional Development Program (NCOPDP) sessions, and sergeants time training. Once commanders are confident that leaders can perform mis-sion essential tasks to standard, leader training for current positions can shift to leader development for increased respon-sibilities in the future. d.  Leader training ensures leaders can perform currently assigned responsibilities. Leader development prepares them for increased responsibilities in the future. The shared goal of leader training and leader development is to produce self-aware, agile, competent, and confident leaders that will enhance unit readiness and mission accomplishment. 5  9.  Officer professional development a.  Commanders should assign officers progressively more complex and demanding duties based on their level of de-velopment and demonstrated potential. b.  Commanders also assess officers performance against leader competencies and provide information on strengths, weaknesses, and developmental needs. c.  Commanders should allow time for officers to attend continuing education and professional development courses as operational requirements permit. d.  Officers should (1)  Develop self-development action plans in coordination with their commander. (2)  Conduct self-study and practice critical functional leader tasks frequently enough to attain and sustain proficiency. (3)  Expand their knowledge by studying history, doctrine, professional manuals and publications, and analyzing current events in view of their impact with their functional area. (4)  Seek assistance and guidance from supervisors, and more experienced leaders and peers. (5)  Seek challenging assignments that provide opportunities to grow in tactical and technical abilities. e.  DA Pam 600  3 is the Armys Commissioned Officer Professional Development and Career Management guide and should be referred to for branch and functional area information. AR 600  100 and ADP 6  22/ADRP 6  22, provide doc-trine and guidance on effective professional development. f.  DA Pam 600  4 is the Army Medical Department Officer Development and Career Management guide and should be referred to for AMEDD branch and functional area information. 5  10.  Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development Program a.  The units NCOPDP will be tailored to the unique requirements of the unit and will support the unit commanders leader development program. (1)  As with all leader training and leader development, the NCOPDP is a command responsibility. The program reflects command priorities and expectations for leader training and development and is typically managed by the CSM or senior NCO in the organization. (2)  The program is equally applicable to both table of organization and equipment units and table of distribution and allowances units. (3)  The NCOPDP consists of training programs, formal and informal, one-on-one or groups, involving coaching as well as instruction, and will be fully integrated into the units overall training program. (4)  The NCOPDP builds upon the contributions of the Armys EPMS and the sequential and progressive design of the NCOES. These two systems provide a valuable foundation for the development of NCOs; however, it is through the ap-plication of knowledge, skills, and abilities in the unit that Soldiers become quality NCOs. b.  The NCOPDP goals and objectives. (1)  The goal of the NCOPDP is to increase and sustain NCO combat readiness and compliment the overarching Army NCOPDP. (2)  Objectives of the NCOPDP are as follows: (a)  Develop and strengthen the skills, knowledge, and abilities to train, deploy, and lead Soldiers in combat through decisive action training. (b)  Develop NCOs who are self-aware, agile, competent, and confident. (c)  Realize the full potential of the NCO support channel. (d)  Foster a unit environment that enhances continued NCO leader development and encourages self-development as part of a life-long learning process. c.  A successful NCOPDP will result in NCOs who can (1)  Demonstrate the skills of current skill level and duty position per DA Pam 611  21 and DA Pam 600  25. (2)  Accept the duties and responsibilities of current rank and duty position per AR 600  20, DA Pam 611  21, and doctrinal products (see FM 7  22.7). (3)  Enhance combat performance for the current and next higher rank and duty position per AR 600  20 and doctrinal products (see ADRP 6  22). (4)  Enhance combat leadership competencies for the current and next higher rank per doctrinal products (see ADRP 6  22). (5)  Train themselves and subordinates to be proficient in individual and collective tasks and associated critical tasks per doctrinal products (see ADP/ADRP/FM 7  0, FM7  22.7). (6)  Coach subordinates to be totally committed to U.S. Army professional ethics, Warrior ethos, and the Soldiers creed per doctrinal products (see ADRP 6  22). d.  DA Pam 600  25 is the Armys Professional Development Guide for NCOs and should be referred to for branch and functional area information. e.  The MOS professional development models should be used to shape the critical learning experiences throughout a Soldiers career. Located in the Army Career Tracker at: https://actnow.army.mil, or https://ile.atsc.army.mil/pdmpub-lic/pdm.html these models provide a standardized framework of professional reference and inclusive career enhancing training and education information.  5  11.  Sergeants training time a.  Commanders emphasize individual Soldier training which is battle focused, in support of unit METs, by allocating dedicated training time for NCOs using sergeants training time. The sergeants training time recognizes the NCOs pri-mary role in conducting individual, crew, and small team training. The sergeants training time develops junior leaders and builds cohesive teams. b.  Sergeants training time requires dedicated time on the training schedule and must be planned, resourced, rehearsed, and executed with no external distractions. NCOs select battle focused individual, crew, and small team tasks that support the units METL, based on their training assessment and platoon leader guidance. Commanders approve the selected tasks, provide the resources, allocate time to prepare, train and certify NCOs leading training, and monitor the training. 5  12.  Airborne training in units a.  Individual proficiency training. (1)  All Soldiers filling paid parachute positions must perform, at a minimum, one jump per quarter to maintain currency and qualification for hazardous duty pay. In addition, these Soldiers will conduct refresher training once a month. (2)  Airborne infantry brigade combat teams (IBCT). Soldiers assigned to an airborne IBCT will conduct a minimum of 8 jumps per year in order to maintain combat proficiency. For Soldiers assigned to an airborne IBCT parachute assault echelon, the optimum training objective is one jump each month, for a total of 12 jumps per year. (Total number of jumps includes the DOD mandated four jumps per year specified in paragraph 511a(1) to meet pay requirements.) Commanders will determine exact jump frequency for their units based on mission and available resources. Additionally, 50 percent of jumps must be night jumps and 75 percent must be from high performance aircraft. All other training requirements will remain at the discretion of unit commanders. (3)  USASOC. Training requirements for USASOC units remains in accordance with current USASOC training policy and based on mission and available resources. (4)  Training requirements for all other airborne organizations remains as per paragraph 511a(1) and at the discretion of unit commanders based on mission and available resources.  b.  Collective training. (1)  Airborne IBCT assault command posts and its assault battalions, with the mission to provide forces to the Army component of the GRF, will conduct at least one night airborne mass tactical assault per quarter. This training should include at least 12 heavy equipment platforms and 16 containerized delivery systems, followed by a field training exercise which includes the seizure of an assault objective. When plausible, training should also include the air-landed portion of follow-on forces and enablers. (2)  Units identified as critical enablers to the airborne IBCT GRF mission will execute at least 8 combat equipment jumps from a high performance aircraft per year. Critical enabling units attached to an airborne IBCT preparing or assum-ing the GRF mission, will execute one combat equipment jump per month and participate in the airborne IBCT collective training outlined in paragraph 511b(1) to include heavy equipment platforms appropriate to support training objectives. (3)  Corps and division assault command posts identified as mission command headquarters for airborne IBCTs with the mission to provide forces to the Army component of the GRF will execute, at a minimum, one night airborne mass tactical assault per quarter in conjunction with IBCT airborne collective training in paragraph 511b(1). (4)  The Joint Forcible Entry Exercises allow outstanding opportunities for Joint training. The main goal of the Joint Forcible Entry Exercises is to enhance Army and Air Force interoperability and rehearse/validate Joint Forcible Entry Operations. The division with the mission of providing airborne IBCTs to the Army GRF component should execute 6 to 8 Joint Forcible Entry Exercises annually. The priority will go to IBCTs preparing to assume the GRF mission or sustain GRF forcible entry proficiency. c.  Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training.  JA/ATT details, procedures and CONUS JA/ATT priorities can be found in appendix G. 5  13.  Troop schools training a.  Troop schools help to support training execution and training management at the command or Army installation level. Commanders will use troop schools as part of their unit training strategy to acquire, enhance, sustain, and supplement individual military skills or pre-command education not readily available through the institutional training base. These military skills should be acquired by the Soldier early enough in the units training cycle in order to optimize this Soldiers contribution to the unit. These military skills include but are not limited to air assault operations, arms room security, mine resistant ambush protected vehicle tactical driving, air load planning, Company Commander First Sergeant Course, DTMS, etc. b.  Troop schools are under the command and control of the respective ACOM, ASCC, or DRU (less IMCOM) at the installation level or a training center. Course programs of instruction and associated training support materials used at troop schools are required to be coordinated and approved with the training proponent responsible for the taught skill regardless of instructor type (for example, military, Army Civilian, or contractor). c.  The garrison command does not command or control a troop school. They will not provide military skill instruction to Soldiers. However, garrison command can provide instruction through a garrison instructional program for non-military or Family support related skills, education, or information. This instructional program would include instruction such as motorcycle safety, equipment use instruction (use of snow blowers, lawn mowers, etc.), nontactical vehicle drivers train-ing, family readiness, morale and recreation services (swimming, hunter safety, and so forth), prevention of alcohol and drug abuse, family financial management, and so forth. d.  Troop school courses of instruction do not relieve officers, WOs, or NCOs from their roles as trainers. Accordingly, troop schools will not conduct courses of instruction in (1)  Tactical or combat-related training that the chain of command has inherent responsibility to train (for example rifle marksmanship, physical readiness training, or rappelling). (2)  Training in warrior tasks and battle drills. (3)  Training on collective tasks (for example: training for crews, teams, squads, platoons). e.  Commands will promulgate regulatory guidance for the operation, management and funding of Troop Schools. Guid-ance will include: (1)  Approval of all contractor provided courses of instruction by the applicable ACOM. (2)  Utilize the Army e-Learning Program as a primary source of selected initial and sustainment training before using alternative sources of instruction. (3)  In coordination with IMCOM, Identification of the infrastructure, sustainment and TSS Enterprise resources re-quired to execute troop school requirements. (4)  Programs of instruction and associated training support materials must be approved by the applicable proponent school regardless of instructor support (for example, military, Army Civilian, or contractor). (5)  Troop Schools, if required, can provide administrative, classroom and manpower support to the DL courses. (6)  Course completions will be documented in DTMS in the Soldiers ITR per AR 600  8  104. f.  Soldier training courses not governed under a troop school include: new equipment training (NET) or language train-ing. Chapter 6 Training Support System 6  1.  Purpose The Training Support System enables the Armys three domains  operational, institutional and self-development. TSS delivers relevant live, virtual/gaming, and constructive (LVC) training enablers through the Armys TSS products, ser-vices, and facilities. It creates training conditions that realistically portray the Decisive Action Training Environment and enables METL-based operational training strategies within the Sustainable Readiness construct, as well as institutional strategies reflected in applicable POI for IMT, PME, and functional training. TSS also provides core infrastructure that enables the self-development domain. 6  2.  Training support system programs a.  The TSS includes five major programs that provide holistic development and delivery of training products, services and facilities to executors. The core TSS programs are the Sustainable Range Program (SRP), Mission Command Training Support Program (MCTSP), Soldier Training Support Program (STSP), Training Information Infrastructure (TII), and CTC modernization. (1)  The SRP is the Armys overall approach for improving the design, management, use, and long-term sustainability of ranges and training land. SRP is defined by its two core programs: the Range Program includes range modernization and range operations, and the Training Land Program, which focuses on land management and maintenance through the ITAM process, training land acquisition, and outreach. It includes a Geographic Information System (GIS) capability provides standard mapping and spatial analysis capabilities to support range modernization, range operations, and ITAM needs. (2)  The MCTSP provides virtual, constructive, gaming and integrating TADSS that enable mission command training in the operational and institutional domains. This program supports MC training for individuals and for units and organi-zations ranging from company to corps, and corresponding structures including Joint Task Force (JTF), and Joint Force Land Component Command. The MCTSP creates training that helps the Armys leaders develop current, relevant MC instincts and skills. It supports individual training on Army Mission Command Systems and Battle Command essential capabilities that empower individuals and small units. The MCTSP provides the staff, trainers, facilities, infrastructure, and other resources necessary to support MC training of Army, Army reserve, and National Guard. The MCTSP includes MTC operations and facilities. MTCs are the venue for MCTP warfighter events, as well as home station. (3)  The STSP includes individual Soldiers through crew level virtual and live TADSS, TSC, and motion and non-motion training facility operations. STSP manages TADSS production and fabrication of training devices, manages loan and issuance of TADSS, provides instructor/operator support for specific Virtual Non-Standard Training Devices, and other TADSS support that enables the mission commander to execute individual and collective training at installations and institutions. The STRP also includes the operation of TSC under a regional support construct. (4)  TII includes the hardware, software, and communications systems conforming both Joint and Army architectures and standards enabling the development, storage, retrieval, delivery, and management of TSS products and information for use by individuals, units, and institutions worldwide. (5)  The CTC Modernization Program enables the TADSS for OPFOR equipment and selected aspects of the facilities pillar of the CTC program. It provides modernization and life cycle technology refreshment of TADSS to the maneuver CTCs in support of Army collective training. Modernization includes: OPFOR, instrumentation, TADSS, and facilities to provide a realistic training environment for Army BCTs in force-on-force and live fire scenarios, allowing the CTCs to track rotational units and OPFOR activity and engagements to assess the operational ground-truth and provide fully ana-lyzed feedback in the form of after action reports. The CTC Modernization Program ensures that CTCs remain relevant by providing key CTC infrastructure. b.  The Armys TSS provides management of training support functions and programs, and maintains TADSS, world-wide, supporting Army training goals. TSS programs are managed by a series of venues as described in paragraph 6-5. 6  3.  Training Support System Products, Services, and Facilities As the Army trains for unified land operations against a hybrid threat, TSS must keep pace and provide commanders the products, services, and facilities to enable Soldier, leader, battle staff, and units to train for decisive action wide area security and combined arms maneuver missions. Each of the TSS programs is comprised of products, services, and facili-ties. a.  Training Support System products.  TSS products are the integrated, interoperable capabilities that enable the con-duct of training. They consist of TADSS and other TSS sponsored training systems. (1)  TADSS includes the hardware, software, and communications systems conforming to both Joint and Army archi-tectures and standards that enable the development, storage, retrieval, delivery, and management of training and training support products and information for use by individuals, units, and institutions worldwide. (2)  TADSS is a general term that includes training instrumentation; Tactical Engagement Simulation; battle simula-tions; targetry; training-unique ammunition; drilled and inert munitions; casualty assessment systems; training aids; and other training support devices. All of these are subject to the public laws and regulatory guidance governing the acquisition of materiel. The STSP under the guidance of the local training support center (TSC) provides oversight of all TADSS used to support training in each TSS arena with the exception of MCTSP and CTC modernization. TADSS are categorized as system and non-system. (a)  System TADSS are designed for use with a system, family of systems, or item of equipment, including subassem-blies and components. They may be stand-alone, embedded, or appended. Using system-embedded TADSS is the preferred approach where practical and cost effective. The Equipping PEG resources Systems TADSS development and fielding as part of the weapons system. Additionally, the Equipping PEG resources system TADSS integration and concurrency into non-system TADSS. The Training PEG resources the maintenance of fielded Systems TADSS, but not their acquisition or life- cycle sustainment. (b)  Non-system TADSS (or non-system training devices (NSTD)) are designed and intended to support unit collective training general military training and non-system-specific training. The Training PEG resources the life cycle of NSTD, to include acquisition, fielding, and life cycle sustainment. (3)  Other training systems may be unique products or TADSS that enable training in a LVC training environment. These include command unique products designated by DCS, G  3/5/7 (Director of Training). (4)  TII provides the hardware, software, and communications system architectures and standards that enable the devel-opment, storage, retrieval, delivery, and management of TSS information for use by individuals, units, and institutions worldwide. b.  Training Support System Services (Operations).  The manpower, management, and support services that enable the support, distribution, and sustainment of training. (1)  Management support services are those efforts that support or contribute to improved program management and sustainment for training programs. This includes manpower at the installation level and major parts of TRADOCs CAC-Training, including the Army Training Support Center (ATSC). (2)  Acquisition support services are those efforts that support or contribute to improved contracting processes for train-ing products and services. (3)  Support services are those efforts that support or contribute to the improved conduct of training that are not included in the management or acquisitions support services. (4)  Where IMCOM is the executing command, TSS services are defined in four common levels of support (CLS) func-tions: 903, ITAM; 904, Range Operations; 905, TSC Operations; and 906, MTC Operations. These functions are reflected in the Installation Status Report (ISR). The same CLS metrics provide the framework for defining TSS services in other executing commands. c.  Training Support System facilities.  Training facilities and land are the permanent or semi-permanent facilities, such as the ranges, maneuver training areas, MTCs, TSCs, motion and non-motion based simulation centers, and CTC facilities that facilitate training rotations. (1)  Ranges are designated land or water areas that are set aside, managed, and used for training activities of the DOD. The term includes firing lines and positions, maneuver areas, firing lanes, test pads, detonation pads, impact areas, elec-tronic scoring sites, buffer zones with restricted access, and exclusionary areas. The term also includes airspace areas designated for military use in accordance with regulations and procedures prescribed by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (see 10 USC 101(e)(1)(A) and (B)). (2)  Maneuver training areas are designated for impact and detonation of all ordnance or those areas required for land-intensive training at the installation. Maneuver/training areas are further defined in terms of the forces that use them as light, amphibious, and heavy forces. (3)  Battle simulations centers (BSCs) support mission command in Army schools. (4)  The MTC provides commanders the capability to train individual operators, leaders, and staffs on unified land operations using distributed training. MTCs also provide the operating center for the integrated training environment (ITE). (5)  TSCs are used for the storage, management, maintenance, issuance, and receipt of TADSS. (6)  Motion and non-motion based simulation facilities are designated for the storage, maintenance and operations of motion and non-motion TADSS. (7)  Regional simulation centers support collective training for brigade and higher, medium to high fidelity, command post exercises, and mission rehearsals using constructive simulations. (8)  Training information infrastructure facilities house TSS products and information for use by individuals, units, and institutions to support the full range of training, from individual training to group instruction. Examples include (a)  DL classrooms. (b)  Enterprise Classroom Program (ECP) Level III. (Classroom XXI). (c)  DTF. (d)  Deployed Digital Training Campuses. 6  4.  Training Support System organizations a.  The TSS organization is a community of practice including: DCS, G  3/5/7, ACOMs, ASCCs, DRUs, senior com-manders, garrison commanders, Director of Plans, Training, Mobilization, and Security, and mission commanders: b.  DCS, G  3/5/7 is the Army Staff proponent for TSS. DCS, G  3/5/7 provides policy, resources, and strategy for Army training. Specifically,  DCS, G  3/5/7 approves, prioritizes, and resources Army training standards, products, services, and facilities requirements. c.  DCS G  37 TR, the Armys Training Directorate, is responsible to the DCS, G  3/5/7 for policy, resourcing, proce-dures, and management of the TSS programs (SRP, MCTSP, training information infrastructure, CTC modernization, and STSP) that support Army training strategies and enable Soldier and unit readiness. d.  DCS G  3/5/7 TR recommends supporting functions or components, which may include program policy and proce-dures, manpower and TDA structure, modernization strategy, operations support functions and resources, facilities, con-nectivity, and/or management support systems for each of the TSS programs, or collectively, across these programs. e.  TRADOC manages training support for the Army and designates internal lead agents for TSS. TRADOC and non-TRADOC proponents generate many of the requirements for TSS products, services and facilities. 6  5.  Training Support System Management The TSS management process includes: a.  TGOSC (see para 1  14). b.  TSS CoC (see para 1  14). c.  Training Support System Management Review meetings. The semi-annual TSS Management Review meetings pro-vide the MCTSP, STSP, TII and SRP with a forum to receive TSS needs identified by TSS execution and supported commands and to review and address all components of their program with the respective ACOM, ASCC, and DRU TSS program managers. The Management Review ensure the TSS products, services, and facilities support and enable the execution of training at home station, service schools, and while deployed. d.  Combat Training Center Quarterly Reviews. TSS participation in CTC program management is limited to CTC mod-ernization that manages the OE/OPFOR, TADSS, and facilities pillars of the CTC Program. The CTC Program Quarterly Reviews provide a forum to address all components of the CTC Program with respective ACOM, ASCC, and DRU TSS PMs. e.  Training Support System Modernization Reviews. The primary objectives for TSS Modernization Reviews are to complete a review of projected TSS product line execution, complete a detailed review and initial validation of all TSS modernization program requirements and funding strategies in preparation for forthcoming POM management decision evaluation package briefs, and to help TSS program leads and management decision evaluation package managers develop an in depth understanding of program requirements so that they can successfully defend the requirements during manage-ment decision evaluation package briefings for the Training PEG. 6  6.  Training Aids, Devices, Simulators, and Simulations sustainment and maintenance The sustainment and maintenance of the Armys training systems, both system and non-system TADSS, are centrally managed by PEO  STRI and funded by the DCS, G  37/Training Simulations Division. 6  7.  Training Support System metrics and capability assessment a.  Training Support System Enterprise members continuously assess TSS requirements to ensure capabilities support the ACP and Army training strategies.  TSS metrics consist of: (1)  Mission essential requirements (MERs). (a)  The TSS Enterprise establishes and maintains Army standards for TSS MER by TSS program and function. (b)  TSS MER includes the proponent-developed quantity from the proponent-developed basis of issue plan or quantity, based on the approved supporting strategy, of each training enabler required by a unit type. (c)  Installation MER represents the TSS capabilities required to support unit training strategies at a specific installation. (d)  The MER includes the minimum number of TADSS, training ranges and facilities, and training operation support personnel (i.e., manpower) required to enable and support individual and collective maneuver and live fire, leader, and staff training. (e)  The MER accounts for and documents selected training enabler requirements by installation for the STSP, SRP, TII and MCTSP. (f)  The MER compares proponent-established metrics against on-hand inventories to determine program shortfalls and is used to support the prioritization and POM processes. (g)  The Training Support Information Management System (TSIMS) database is the repository for all TSS Program MERs and the authoritative data source for the TSS Master Plan. Resulting data contributes to determining empirically-based TSS requirements enabling the TSS Program Leads to submit and defend program funding. (2)  Use cases.  These cases describe the scope and level of the TSS capability and locations required for each program, by levels of installations based on training missions of these installations. Each program uses a unique set of metrics to define the level of capability required and that is associated with size of the individual TSS program (for example, Tiers for Ranges and Categories for ITAM; Large/Medium/Small capacity for STSP and MCTSP). MCTSP uses Hub and Spoke to refine and/or limit the amount at small capacity between MTC locations. (3)  Utilization reports.  TSS execution commands prepare quarterly utilization reports for TSS enablers. Utilization reports are submitted to the TSS program lead agents for program level review. The CAC  T, Training Support Analysis and Integration Directorate (TSAID), compiles the reports, conducts analysis, and provides the consolidated report to the Army in accordance with AR 350  38. b.  Assessment process. (1)  Major assessments are conducted biennially to support POM development. These are done by conducting TSS Theater in-progress reviews to determine TSS requirements based on the above metrics. These in-progress reviews are conducted by the DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Simulations Division), TRADOC TSS agencies, and PEO STRI, with TSS managers in each Army theater where TSS is executed. (2)  TSS integration reviews (TIRs) are conducted annually with the proponent service schools. TRADOC TSS agencies conduct these with proponent schools to determine broad TSS functional approaches and strategies by battlefield function. TIRs may also result in identification of initial requirements and adjustments to MER quantities. c.  TSS Master Plan. (1)  TRADOC (CAC  T) maintains the TSS Master Plan that reflects the results of all assessments, including MER, use cases and individual installation capabilities. (2)  The TSS Master Plan maintains the status of TSS by TSS program and location, and is updated annually. Chapter 7 Army Modernization Training Section I Introduction 7  1.  Policies and procedures This chapter prescribes policy for providing training and training support with the fielding or issue of new/improved/ displaced equipment. Unless specifically stated elsewhere, the information in this chapter applies to all components of the Army. 7  2.  Army modernization by unit sets New, improved, and displaced equipment is provided to Army units by planning, acquiring, and fielding a unit set (to include training capability) to a designated RA or RC unit during a single modernization window. Doing so synchronizes modernization proponents and all DOTMLPF  P activities required to field and support the individual systems that com-prise unit sets (see AR 5  22). To the extent possible, a system-of-systems approach is used for capabilities/ requirements generation, materiel development and acquisition, manpower and personnel, funding, testing, fielding, transfer, training, sustainment, and support facilities. The modernization process should occur when it causes the least impact on collective training and mission execution. When synchronized unit set fielding is not possible (as during rapid acquisition to meet urgent operation needs), every effort must be made to initiate early identification and development of the required training capabilities. Early parallel development of training capabilities-especially during rapid acquisition-is essential to the plan-ning, programming, fielding, and sustainment of complete training capabilities. 7  3.  Total package fielding To minimize the logistics burden of fielding on the gaining ACOM, ASCC, or DRU, all required support is concurrently fielded with a materiel system. Training and Training Support is one of the integrated logistic support elements that are carefully managed throughout a systems total life cycle with particular emphasis during acquisition (see AR 700  127) and fielding (see AR 700  142). 7  4.  Rapid acquisition, fielding and testing In response to the operational needs of the force, the rapid acquisition, fielding and test initiative has been developed to aggressively change the acquisition and modernize business practices of the force. Objectives for development into every materiel systems training subsystem are: a.  Rapid acquisitions are initiated to fulfill CCMD urgent or emergent operational needs and other quick reaction ca-pabilities. A quick reaction capability (QRC) is an acquisition response to a validated urgent need, a program specifically designated by the milestone decision authority (MDA) to receive high priority for resources, facilities, and expedited staff-ing. DODI 5000.02 describes a QRC as being fielded in less than 2 years and below the cost thresholds of Acquisition Category (ACAT) I and IA programs. b.  The QRC initiative can consist of both equipment that will become standard programs of record or non-standard equipment that is a prototype, or may have limited use due to conflict or low-density MOS training. Actions could include identifying possible capabilities development solution sets and ensuring operational need statement systems have training and sustainment support. In some cases, schools and centers support this effort with training teams that conduct limited new equipment training and may establish contingency training venues to support deploying forces. While TRADOC engages and assists the operational commanders with the expeditious identification and rapid resolution of critical capa-bility gaps affecting operational mission, the Army Requirements Oversight Council is the authority for determining the disposition of solutions to urgent and emergent operational needs. This includes the process for evaluating these solutions as potential enduring capabilities or acquisition programs of record for the Army. The DCS, G  8 is the disposition official responsible for directing the requisite disposition analysis in coordination with the CAPDEV and for providing disposition recommendations to the AROC. 7  5.  Acquisition of training support As an indispensable capability, training and training support is developed along with a materiel system in accordance with acquisition policy. That is, a materiel systems training and training support requirements are established in accordance with AR 71  9; are documented in accordance with AR 71  32; are developed and fielded in accordance with AR 70  1; are supported in accordance with AR 700  127; and are released for fielding in accordance with AR 700  142. AR 350  38 provides policy and guidance for the management of TADSS, both system and nonsystem. 7  6.  General acquisition objectives for training Objectives for development into every materiel systems training subsystem are as follows: a.  Ensure that an overall collective and individual task training strategy is documented in the JCIDS documentation (ICD and CPD). The training plan is developed for every materiel system by the TRADOC proponent working hand-in-hand with the MATDEV. The general objectives for the training plan are identified below. Specific Army Modernization and New Equipment training plan timelines, formats, and guidance for preparation, exceptions (waivers), and updating will be published by TRADOC. b.  Ensure that the materiel systems training subsystem provides adequate training development and training support so that leaders, and trainers in every training domain (Army training school system, at mobilization sites, at Army combat training centers, at home station, while deployed) can efficiently and effectively accomplish their role of training and educating DOD personnel. c.  Ensure that required operational environment (OE) elements (live, virtual, and constructive) are considered and the required capability is provided with the material system being fielded and calculated into the life cycle cost estimate. d.  The ability to tether and embed required training into the organic materiel system so it will operate in an ITE shall be incorporated into major end items of new modernized equipment whenever practical. e.  Ensure that every materiel system being fielded has been integrated into the existing Army TSS. For example, ensure that required training capability has been integrated into all training domains (Institutional, Operational, and Self-Devel-opment), into training environments (for example, LVC training venues), and existing training simulations and devices. f.  Ensure that critical collective and individual tasks that require training to achieve system proficiency and training support requirements associated with the materiel system are fielded concurrently with the system. g.  Ensure that training support required for a materiel system is logistically supported over time. h.  Ensure that required training and training support accompany any equipment that is displaced from one unit to an-other. i.  For life-cycle units, field new systems to units early in the SR timeline, train operators and maintainers during initial military training, and export tactical employment training to unit leaders before the train-up cycle begins. j.  Ensure that the TRADOC proponent is provided initial sets, to include prototypes of equipment, at least one year prior (goal) to FUE or as directed by respective HQDA policy, to facilitate the proponent working in parallel with the MATDEVs TNGDEV to validate training products and prepare the necessary training products for training throughout the Army. k.  Per AR 70  1, the acquisition of a training system will have the same priority as the support (parent) system or equipment. To ensure that the training base has the capability to train operators, maintainers, and leaders on the materiel system within one year of FUE date or as directed by respective HQDA policy, it will be necessary for the MATDEV to program for the fielding of systems or items of equipment, to the training base to enable the introduction of the new system into the LVC  environments and all training domains. l.  Ensure that there is a timeline for updating the system training plan to support each acquisition milestone decision review. m.  Ensure that facilities and/or facilities modifications required for the training and/or the full fielding of the new system are programmed and funded to be constructed by the time of the fielding/training. n.  Ensure Basis of Issue guidance in capability documents and basis of issue feeder data will include when applicable equipment modernization requirements for all schools in the One Army School Systems (OASS) (both RA and RC) and institutional training facilities. A statement in the basis-of-issue feeder data is required when modernization is not appli-cable. 7  7.  Required training and training support a.  Critical collective and individual tasks requiring training and training support requirements that must be developed and fielded with a materiel system are identified as key performance parameters (KPPs) in accordance with the Manual for the Operation of the JCIDS (hereafter referred to as the JCIDS Manual) available at https://www.in-telink.gov/wiki/jcids_manual. A system training KPP is intended to ensure that the materiel system is fielded with this critical training capability. Properly describing a system training KPP also ensures that life cycle costs of training are considered for the program. b.  System training is an essential aspects of AMT is found in the JCIDS Manual. The Training KPP is intended to ensure that materiel aspects of training capabilities, when applicable, are addressed as part of the development of the capability solution outlined in the capability development or capability production document. (The Training KPP is appli-cable to all capability development or capability production documents with materiel training requirements which dictate specific operational performance characteristics of the capability solution). In order to integrate system training capabili-ties, training must be considered early in the capabilities development process. This begins with the analyses that support development of the ICD and continues with development of the capability development document (CDD) and capabilities production document (CPD). To comply with the JCIDS Manual, sponsors of Army capabilities documents (Army CAPDEV, TNGDEV and system proponents) must either: (1)  determine that system training is a key performance parameter. (2)  if the analysis determines that system training should not be a KPP, a summary of the justification will be provided in the CDD or CPD (usually in paragraph 5 of the requirements document entitled System Capabilities required for the Current Increment).  (3)  If analysis determines that system training should be a KPP, then sponsors must: (a)  Ensure system training and training support is addressed in analysis of alternatives and subsequent phases; (b)  Ensure projected training requirements and associated costs are appropriately addressed across the program life cycle; and (c)  Include results of sustainment training KPP analysis in their capabilities document submission along with an overall recommendation to the Joint Capability Board and/or Joint Requirements Oversight Council on sustainment training KPP applicability. c.  The total training concept, strategy, and training support system resourcing estimates for integrating the system or family of systems into the operational, institutional, and self-development domains are provided in an annex to the ap-proved JCIDS capabilities document called the STRAP.  Nonmateriel aspects of training and training support are to be captured as part of the DOTMLPF  P considerations and program affordability paragraphs of the capability development or capability production document. The STRAP will be an extension of the training information contained in the capability requirements document, and will provide additional training support details. It is not a mandatory document for the capa-bility development or capability production document. But it can be submitted to provide supporting information. d.  The STRAP is the master training plan and training tool for a new or modified system. It is prepared to support a TSS that meets the training requirements of the warfighter. It outlines the development of the total training concept, strat-egy, and TSS estimates for integrating the system or family of systems into the operational, institutional, and self-devel-opment domains. While the STRAP is considered supporting documentation and is not included as part of the capability development or capability production document, the key aspects of training and leader development needed, as well as necessary resources must be included in capability requirements document. The STRAP will delineate: (1)  Required and critical collective and individual task training and training support needed in training base schools. (2)  Required and critical collective and individual task training and training support needed to train operators and main-tainers when equipment is fielded. (3)  Required and critical collective and individual task training and training support needed so that unit leaders can achieve and sustain unit proficiency after fielding. (4)  Required and critical collective and individual task training and training support needed for web-based self-devel-opment and knowledge management tools. (5)  Required and critical collective and individual task capabilities for the existing TSSs for schools, units, Army train-ing centers, mobilization sites, and deployable training capability. (6)  Required and critical collective and individual task training and training support needed in training support units. (7)  Required collective and individual task integration into existing and planned system and non-system training aids, devices, simulators and simulations. e.  Generally, collective and individual task training and training support requirements for a materiel system are identi-fied by the TNGDEV and are validated and prioritized, as required, by DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training Directorate). 7  8.  Provision of training and training support a.  Funding responsibilities.  The PM is the total life cycle system manager, responsible for total life cycle management of all training capability embedded in a materiel system. Additionally, the PM is responsible for fielding a fully supportable system (to include the Integrated Logistic Service element - training and training support) and integrating the materiel systems training subsystem into the Army TSS. Accordingly, the PM funds operator/crew/maintainer training required to field a new/improve/displaced system as well as operator/crew/maintainer training support for fielding, for sustainment training after fielding, and for training base schools. Tables  7  1 and 7  2 clarify responsibilities for identifying, approving, funding, and/or producing various types of training support.  b.  Categories of training.  The following categories of training are used to define responsibilities for the provision of training and training support: (1)  New equipment training.  The initial transfer of knowledge on the operation and maintenance of new and improved equipment from the MATDEV to the tester, trainer, supporter, and user. (2)  Displaced equipment training.  Training provided by the PM on the operation and maintenance of previously fielded equipment that is scheduled for redistribution within an ACOM, ASCC, or DRU or among several ACOMs, ASCCs, or DRUs or components as a result of the Army Modernization Process. (3)  Doctrine and tactics training.  Training development provided by the TNGDEV on employment, tactics, and in-teroperability of new or displaced equipment. (4)  Sustainment training.  Individual and collective task training conducted by and within a unit, or organization, upon completion of NET/DET to ensure continued expertise on the operation, maintenance, and employment of fielded equip-ment. Sustainment training also includes institutional training designed to replace Soldiers who PCS, ETS, or retire from units who have already completed NET. c.  Key players.  The following agencies have distinct responsibilities for providing training and training support: (1)  Program and/or product manager.  In accordance with DODD 5000.01 The Defense Acquisition System and additional applicable directives, instructions and regulations, ...the program manager (PM) is the designated individual with the responsibility for and authority to accomplish program objectives for the development, production, and sustain-ment to meet the users operational needs. The PM is accountable for the credible cost, schedule, and performance of a program and reporting to the milestone decision authority (MDA). They exercise leadership, decision-making, and over-sight throughout a program and a systems life cycle. They need to be the leader of the program, understand requirements, balance constraints, manage contractors, build support (Social Engineering) and puts to use the basic skills of management. (Acu Notes are available at URL: http://www.acqnotes.com/acqnote/careerfields/program-manager). (2)  The MDA is the designated individual with overall responsibility for a program. The MDA will have the authority to approve entry of an acquisition program into the next phase of the acquisition process and shall be accountable for cost, schedule, and performance reporting to higher authority, including Congressional reporting. The Under Secretary of De-fense (USD) (AT&L) is the MDA for all major Acquisition Category (ACAT) 1 programs unless delegated. (Acq Notes are available at URL: http://www.acqnotes.com/acqnote/acquisitions/milestone-decision-authority). (3)  Materiel developer.  The MATDEV is the research, development and acquisition (RDA) command, agency, or of-fice assigned responsibility for the system under development or being acquired.  The term may be used generically to refer to the RDA community in the materiel acquisition process (for example, PEO, PM, and Class I, II, and III level managers). (4)  Capability developer.  The CAPDEV is the command or agency that formulates warfighting requirements for DOTLMPF  P. The acronym CAPDEV may be used generically to represent the user and user maintainer community role in the materiel acquisition process (counterpart to generic use of MATDEV). (a)  TCMs are the TRADOC and USASMDC/ARSTRAT managers of selected capability areas and ACAT I, ACAT II, or other high priority materiel systems when a need exists for management outside the normal capacity available to force modernization proponents for capability development integration, synchronization, and accomplishing user requirements in the materiel acquisition process. TCMs, working for and reporting to the force modernization proponent, are chartered by TRADOC to manage and integrate DOTMLPF  P for their assigned capability area(s).  Within the training area, the TCM coordinates development of home station and institutional training for individuals, crews and units -- including the development and fielding of training aids, devices (system and non-system), simulations and simulators for use in training in the institution, home station, and CTCs. (b)  The TNGDEV is the Army agency or individual that determines requirements for a systems training subsystem and formulates, develops, and documents associated training concepts, strategies, plans, and required training support. In accordance with AR 71  9 is a subset of and included within capability developer; serves as the users representative during development and acquisition of a systems training subsystem. (5)  NET Manager.  Official designated by the PM responsible for planning, coordinating, and conducting NET.  Table 7  1 Responsibility for Training Development and Support If Needed for the Conduct of New Equipment Training/Doctrine and Tactics Training  Continued  Training Support Com-ponents for NET/doctrine and tac-tics training (DTT)   Identify Training Re-quirements For   Approve Requirements For   Program/Budget For   Develop/Produce   How-to-Fight Doctrine   CAPDEV   CAPDEV   CAPDEV   CAPDEV   Soldiers Manu-als/CATS   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   Collective Tasks   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TMs   MATDEV   PM   PM (1)   MATDEV   NET Weapon Training Strategy (2)   TNGDEV (2)  TNGDEV (2)   PM (1&2)   TNGDEV (2)   DTT Weapon Training Strategy   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   Ammo for NET   TNGDEV   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   PM (1)   PEO AMMO/JMC   Ammo for DTT   TNGDEV   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   TNGDEV   PEO AMMO/JMC   Ranges/Targetry for NET/DTT   TNGDEV thru Army Command Plans   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   PEO  STRI (4)   Training facilities (other than ranges) for NET/DTT   TNGDEV thru Army Command Plans   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   ACSIM, COE, ARNG (3)  Trainers for NET   TNGDEV   MATDEV   PM (1)   MATDEV   Trainers for DTT   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   Training Support Pack-ages for NET   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   PM   PM   Training Support Pack-ages for DTT   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   Ground/Air OPTEMPO Integrated Log Spt   MATDEV in compli-ance with TNGDEV   ASA (ALT) /G  8 in co-ordination with G  3/5/7/ TR  PM (1)   PM   Table 7  1 Responsibility for Training Development and Support If Needed for the Conduct of New Equipment Training/Doctrine and Tactics Training  Continued  Training Support Com-ponents for NET/doctrine and tac-tics training (DTT)   Identify Training Re-quirements For   Approve Requirements For   Program/Budget For   Develop/Produce   Non-system TADSS for NET/DTT   TNGDEV   G  8 DAPR  FD in co-ordination with G  3/5/7 TR   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   PEO  STRI (4)   System TADSS for NET/DTT   TNGDEV   G  8 DAPR  FD in co-ordination with G  3/5/7 TR  PM (1)   MATDEV (4)   Note: 1 MDAs approves allocation of program funds, but critical quantities of critical training components must be provided. 2 Strategies themselves-not resources required to execute them. 3 Strategies are developed within DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  3/5/7 TR) approved resource limits and approved by DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  3/5/7 TR). 4 Design approved by TNGDEV.   Table 7  2 Responsibility for Providing with Materiel Fielding the Training Support Components needed for Sustainment Training after any NET/DTT  Continued  Training Support Com-ponents After NET/DTT   Identify Training Re-quirements For   Approve Requirements For   Program/Budget For   Develop/Produce   How-to-Fight Doctrine   CAPDEV   CAPDEV   CAPDEV   CAPDEV   SMs/CATS   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   TMs   MATDEV   PM   PM (1)   MATDEV   Weapons Training Strategies (2)   TNGDEV (2)  TNGDEV (2)  TNGDEV (2)   TNGDEV (2&3)   Ammo for Weapons Training Strategy   TNGDEV   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   HQDA G  8, DAPR  FD   PEO AMMO/AMC   Ranges/Targetry   ACOMs   TRADOC CAC  T (TCM Ranges/Training Support Enterprise)   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   PEO  STRI (4)   Training facilities (other than ranges)   ACOMS  TRADOC CAC  T (TCM Ranges/Training Support Enterprise)  HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   ACSIM, COE, ARNG (3)  Combat Support Ma-neuver Tng Strategies (2)   TNGDEV (2)  TNGDEV (2)   TNGDEV (2)   TNGDEV (2&3)   Ground/Air OPTEMPO Integrated Log Spt $   MATDEV in compli-ance with TNGDEV   HQDA G  3/5/7(TR)  HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   Non-system TADSS   TNGDEV   G  8 DAPR  FD in co-ordination with G  3/5/7 TR   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   PEO  STRI (4)   System TADSS (2)   TNGDEV   G  8 DAPR  FD in co-ordination with G  3/5/7 TR   PM (1)   MATDEV (4)   Integration in CTC IS   TNGDEV   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   PM (1)   PEO  STRI (4)   Integration in CT   TNGDEV   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   PM (1)   TNGDEV (4)   Tng-Base POI Weapon Tng Strategy (2)   TNGDEV (2)   TNGDEV (2)   TNGDEV (2)   TNGDEV (2&3)   Ammo for Tng-Base POI Weapon Tng Strategy   TNGDEV   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   PEO AMMO/AMC   Tng-Base POI   TNGDEV   HQDA G  3/5/7 TR   TNGDEV   TNGDEV   Note: 1 Milestones Decision Authority approves allocation of program funds, but critical quantities of critical training components must be provided. 2 Strategies themselves-not resources required to execute them. 3 Strategies are developed within DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  3/5/7 TR) approved resource limits and approved by DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  3/5/7 TR). 4 Design approved by TNGDEV. 7  9.  Training developer determines requirements for new equipment training and doctrine and tactics training When any significant amount of new/improved or displaced equipment is issued to a unit, the TRADOC Proponent TNGDEV will assess what training development and training support needs to accompany equipment fielding. In general, the PM is responsible for providing any needed operator/crew/maintainer training and operator/crew/maintainer training support via a NETT and the TRADOC TNGDEV is responsible for providing any unit training and unit training support required to support the systems integration into the Army. A DTT team from the proponent may be required to incorporate the system into a unit, which is being restructured etc. Requirements for NET and DTT are established in the program capability document and supported by an equipment training plan. Section II New Equipment Training 7  10.  New equipment training objective NET provides the initial transfer of knowledge on the operation and maintenance of new/improved and displaced equip-ment from MATDEV to the tester, trainer, supporter, and user. NET will assist commanders to achieve operational capa-bility in the shortest time practical by training Soldiers/crews how to operate and maintain the new/improved equipment and by providing unit leaders with training support components needed to sustain proficiency of operators and maintainers on the new/improved equipment after NET. 7  11.  New equipment training policy When NET is required for new and improved equipment, the PEO/PM designates a NET Manager who plans and conducts NET on a reimbursable basis for PEOs and PMs. In accordance with guidance from the designated PEO or PM, and in coordination with the trainer, tester, and user, the NET manager will a.  Begin planning for NET at the onset of program initiation. b.  Employ the most cost-effective and feasible training strategy to conduct NET. c.  Include in NET, training on the training support components provided at NET that enable unit leaders to sustain operator and maintainer proficiency on the new/improved equipment after NET. d.  Coordinate plans for NET training and training support with MATDEV, TNGDEV, CAPDEV, testers, and user ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs. e.  Coordinate NET funding requirements with designated PEOs and PMs. f.  Ensure NET support components are developed in accordance with the Army Training and Education Development (ED) process and Army training support design standards. g.  Ensure embedded training requirements and computer-based instructions are developed in accordance with the sys-tem capabilities document during the initial development process. h.  Ensure effectiveness of NET and training support components are validated (by the responsible training propo-nent(s)) and on-hand before the conduct of NET. i.  Review basis of issue plan feeder data for new and improved equipment in accordance with AR 71  32. j.  Prepare a Qualitative and Quantitative Personnel Requirements Information document in accordance with AR 71  32. k.  Prepare a NET plan for each system requiring NET within 30 days of forwarding a Qualitative and Quantitative Personnel Requirements Information Data Interchange Package to the Army TNGDEV through the U.S. Army Force Management Support Activity. l.  Conform with Federal Acquisition Regulation when procuring NET services from contractor personnel. m.  Provide NET support for other military departments for multi-Service systems or equipment when the Army is the lead service. n.  When NET awards an ASI, record in ATRRS the participation of personnel in NET, that is, reservations for, enroll-ments in, and graduation from NET. 7  12.  Planning for new equipment training o.  Planning for NET is based on the overall training strategy for the system as established in the STRAP. NET planning is initiated upon receipt of the capability requirement document and/or the STRAP. Key aspects of NET planning are: review of capability requirements documents and STRAP; development of budgetary requirements to support training development; and preparation of the Qualitative and Quantitative Personnel Requirements Information, NET plans, con-tract requirement packages, and Training Support Packages for NET events. MATDEVs provide a copy of requirements documents to the NET Manager within 30 days of receipt. The NET Manager will (1)  Review the requirements document to identify NET training requirements. (2)  Work with TNGDEV to develop a NET training strategy. (3)  Work with TNGDEV to develop NET activities/events for operators/crews/maintainers and associated training sup-port. (4)  Work with TNGDEV to develop training support needed by field units and training base schools to sustain profi-ciency of operators/crews/maintainers after NET. (5)  Consolidate manpower and funding requirements for NET on the new/improved system and for developing/ fielding the training support needed by field units and training base schools to sustain proficiency of operators/crews/ maintainers after NET. p.  Basis-of-issue plan feeder data is prepared by the MATDEV and lists the number of items or equipment to be issued to a unit or activity. It also includes the personnel changes that may result from the introduction of new, improved, or modified equipment. A basis of issue plan may be amended at any time during system development when new or updated information becomes available. The Qualitative and Quantitative Personnel Requirements Information describes the sys-tem, its capabilities, and the manpower and skills necessary to operate and maintain the system by occupational specialty and level of maintenance. Information contained in the Qualitative and Quantitative Personnel Requirements Information is used to project manpower requirements, personnel selections, and training requirements, and to restructure tables of organization and equipment. The NET Manager uses data contained in the Qualitative and Quantitative Personnel Require-ments Information as a baseline to support the development of NET plans. The NET Manager will (1)  Review Basis of Issue Plan Feeder Data for program milestones, system description, system deployment, recom-mended quantity, and submit recommended changes to the PEOs and PMs, as required. (2)  Prepare the Qualitative  and Quantitative Personnel Requirements Information in accordance with AR 71  32. (3)  Forward the completed Qualitative & Quantitative Personnel Requirements Information to the Army TNGDEV through the U.S. Army Force Management Support Activity according to the time frames and guidelines established in AR 71  32. (4)  Ensure the Qualitative and Quantitative Personnel Requirements Information is forwarded to U.S. Army Force Management Support Activity through the Army Materiel Plan Modernization system. q.  The NET plan is a management tool developed by the NET Manager to plan, coordinate, project, and document NET requirements. NET plan ensures all actions are identified and implemented for successful and comprehensive training programs on new and modified equipment. The NET plan should address, as applicable, training before NET to prepare data collectors, testers, trainers, supporters, and so forth; training during NET for system operators/ maintainers; and train-ing during NET for unit leaders on sustainment training support. The NET plan is a living document. NET plan is created by the NET Manager and is based upon information contained in the capability requirements document and other docu-ments (such as STRAP, Human Systems Integration Plan, and Qualitative & Quantitative Personnel Requirements Infor-mation) and input from other organizations that are responsible for various sections of the NET plan. The NET Manager is the NET plan owner with authority to accept and reject proposed changes to the content of NET plan. The NET Manager will (1)  Plan for the provision of the training and training support needed to execute NET strategy, for example, the provi-sion of how-to-fight doctrine, training support publications (Soldiers Manuals and CATS), training courses, training sup-port packages, NET team members, facilities, and so forth. (2)  Estimate travel, per diem, and TDY costs in support of NET. (3)  Estimate contractor expenses, prepare independent Government cost estimates, and budget requirement packages. 7  13.  New equipment training planning considerations When planning for NET, the following factors must be taken into consideration by the NET manager: a.  The technical complexity of the equipment and its similarity to previously fielded systems. b.  Current state of the training base to support the equipment. c.  Impact on training by interim contractor maintenance support and warranty restraints on equipment and systems. d.  The fielding rate and depot-level maintenance training requirements in support of NET. e.  The availability of trainers in the gaining units to proliferate training, the quality and quantity of personnel to be trained, and the effect on unit readiness. f.  Available training aids, devices, equipment, ranges, facilities, and materials, including visual information products. g.  The environment in which the system is to be employed. h.  The capabilities and dispersion of RC units and the affected members of the IRR. i.  The increased costs associated with RC NET due to unit dispersion. j.  Fiscal and manpower resources. k.  Ammunition and consumables to support NET. l.  Foreign language requirements for foreign national and host nation personnel. m.  The need to establish project development identifiers and project skill identifiers in accordance with DA Pam 611  21. 7  14.  Contractual requirements a.  Development of NET course materials and the conduct of NET may be accomplished by the Army or by contractor personnel. When NET strategies incorporate the use of contractors, the NET manager will serve as the NET Contracting Officers Technical Representative. Because of the increased cost factor, every effort will be made to rapidly transition NET responsibilities from contractor-provided support to Army-provided support (in accordance with applicable contrac-tual terms or obligations). NET course materials must be developed in accordance with TRADOC standards. b.  Properly prepared contractual documents (for example, the request for proposal, statement of work, and contract data requirements list) are essential to ensure the required services and products are procured and delivered in a timely manner. As the NET contracting officers technical representative, the NET manager will (1)  Respond to data calls from the PEO and PM. (2)  Develop the training statement of work in coordination with the TNGDEV. (3)  Coordinate contract requirements with the contracting officer/specialist. (4)  Participate in source selection evaluation boards as the subject matter expert for training, as required. (5)  Conduct an initial training review conference with contractor personnel no later than 30 days after contract award unless there is a mutual agreement between the NET manager, PEO or PM, and the contractor to reschedule. (6)  If NET is developed and conducted in-house by the Army, MATDEV or provider will train NETT at the initiation of Defense Acquisition Milestone Decision Review Milestone B. 7  15.  Developing training support components a.  The NET manager coordinates for all training support components to be available to support NET, to include com-ponents required to train the NET team before NET, to train unit operators/maintainers during NET, and for unit leaders to conduct sustainment training after NET. To the extent practical, NET and training support are based on sustainment training strategies developed by the TNGDEV. b.  The NET manager will (1)  Evaluate training development and provide a list of required support equipment to the PEO or PM before Defense Acquisition milestone decision review milestones B and C. (2)  In accordance with the approved capabilities document and approved program baseline, MATDEV in coordination with the proponent and gaining ACOM, ASCC, DRU, will program and budget for development of system training support for operators and maintainers. 7  16.  Conducting new equipment training a.  The NET Manager organizes the NET team that conducts NET. The NET team is a group of experienced individuals with varying specialties for initial training on the maintenance and operation of new and modified equipment. A NET team can consist of military, Government, and contractor personnel, or a combination of each. NETT instructors must meet TRADOC instructor standards. Similarly, the NET team may use one or a combination of the following techniques: (1)  Leader training.  Training provided to selected unit leaders from the user ACOM, ASCC, or DRU who, depending upon the complexity and density of equipment, and availability of training facilities, will train other personnel or units. This training may be conducted at a MATDEV site, or the installation receiving the equipment. (2)  Key personnel.  Training provided to a select number of key personnel responsible for operating and maintaining low-density Systems. Training and cost effectiveness will dictate the number of locations where training will be conducted. (3)  Organizational training.  Training provided for personnel assembled for unit training at one location following ad-vanced individual training. This training can be conducted at a selected station or at the training base, and thereafter, integrated into unit training. (4)  Unit training.  Training provided to all assigned operators and maintainers of a gaining unit for complex equipment that is critical to unit readiness. This is the least desirable strategy because it requires a large NETT for an extended period. (5)  Contractor NET.  Training performed by contractors and managed by the NET manager. This training may be con-ducted at a contractor facility, unit location, or at a resident training installation. (6)  Institutional training.  Training performed by the Armys institutional training base providing sufficient graduates (both initial entry and first-line supervisor) in time to support the fielding of new equipment. (7)  Distributed learning.  Delivery of training to Soldiers and units through the application of multiple means and tech-nology. The amount and kind of training appropriate for DL application will be determined by the tasks to be trained. DL allows students, leaders, and units centralized access to essential information and training. It represents a powerful capa-bility in which the proper balance of course content and delivery technologies are provided when and where they will have the greatest impact on force readiness. It can include print, videotape, and video tele-training or a combination of each. DL should be considered for NET when it is cost-effective. Exceptions may be required for security reasons or the need to observe hands-on performance. (8)  Full Task Training with TADSS.  Training provided to individuals and units using a combination of TADSS (Live, Virtual/Gaming, Constructive(LV/GC) to train individual and collective tasks in preparation for NET with the operational equipment/ weapon systems. TADSS includes interactive multimedia instruction courseware, virtual simulators, and con-structive simulations. When available, these TADSS should be used to conduct training prior to NET. The overall training approach is cost-effective and can reduce the time required for NET and permits the gaining unit to more rapidly transition to a state of operational readiness. (9)  Embedded training.  Training capability hosted in hardware and/or software, integrated into the overall equipment configuration. Embedded training capabilities will be evaluated and considered as a preferred means to incorporate training subsystems into the development and follow-on product improvement programs for Army materiel systems. b.  During conduct of NET, both the NET manager and NET team are required to perform an array of tasks to ensure quality training during fielding. These tasks are coordinated with the PEO and PMs, the TNGDEV, and CAPDEV through-out the NET cycle. NET Managers will (1)  Review or update basis of issue plan feeder data, Qualitative & Quantitative Personnel Requirements Information data and NET plans, as required. (2)  Review or update program source documents, as required. (3)  Monitor contractual training efforts. (4)  Oversee and evaluate development of training materials and ensure compatibility with applicable publications and ensure validation of all System training support products. (5)  Forecast NET team funding requirements in coordination with the PEOs and PMs. (6)  Manage overall NET team requirements. (7)  Determine qualifications for NET course attendance. (8)  Coordinate or monitor conduct of training by NET team members. (9)  Coordinate NET requirements with key players. c.  The NETT members will (1)  Conduct NET as prescribed in the NET plan. (2)  Conduct pre-mission and post-mission briefings with the gaining commands. (3)  Set up classrooms and coordinate other required training facilities with the gaining command. (4)  Perform necessary administrative functions. (5)  Assist the gaining command in certification and qualification training. (6)  Update training materials as required. (7)  Ensure operator/maintainer training support and unit employment training support is provided to the gaining com-mand for sustainment training. d.  MATDEV will coordinate the funding requirements for conduct of NET with the proponent and gaining ACOM, ASCC, or DRU. e.  Systems are considered to have reached full operational capacity (FOC) only after institutional training organizations have received their total scheduled equipment allocation and completed instructor & key personnel training (I&KPT) to qualify instructors to train the necessary replacements to sustain all units who have completed the new equipment training (NET) or displaced equipment training (DET). Specifics of FOC for a particular system are defined in the systems capa-bility documents. In the case of extended NET/DET plans, the institutional training organization can be incrementally supplied with equipment and personnel to train the necessary replacements for those units who have already completed the NET/DET; however, incremental fielding to the institutional organization will limit its capability to generate replace-ments to units who have completed the NET/DET and delay FOC. 7  17.  Termination of new equipment training f.  The NET manager, in coordination with the PEOs and PMs, CAPDEV, and TNGDEV, will recommend termination of NET when the training milestones - and transition to Army training sustainment centers and institutions are completed. g.  The NET manager will initiate the termination of NET for a system as follows: (1)  Request written concurrence from the appropriate ACOM, ASCC, DRU, DARNG, or CAR. (2)  Request retirement to DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  3/5/7 TR). 7  18.  Funding for new equipment training a.  The NET manager annually prepares, coordinates, and submits NET program and budget requirements to the MATDEV until transition to Army training sustainment centers and institutions is complete. b.  PEOs and PMs provide funding to the NET manager to support new or modified equipment training requirements. Applicable references include AR 70  1, AR 700  142, and DA Pam 700  142. c.  Appendix J provides a list of NET support and services that are reimbursable by the PEOs and PMs.  7  19.  New equipment training documentation a.  All aspects of NET will be documented in the NET plan, including training support (excludes classified NET plan). b.  The designated NET manager has primary oversight for NETP in coordination with the system PEO and PM. c.  The NET manager, in coordination with the PEOs and PMs, prepares a draft NETP within 30 days of forwarding the initial Qualitative & Quantitative Personnel Requirements Information to U.S. Army Force Management Support Activity. d.  The NET manager disseminates the NET plan for Army-wide staffing. e.  The NET manager, TNGDEV, CAPDEV, and HRC update designated sections of the NET plan accordingly. f.  NET plan changes as equipment, operations, maintenance and fielding concepts are developed. g.  NET Managers convene training support work group meetings to address NET related issues. h.  Coordinate all NETP with DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  3/5/7 TR and DCS, G  8). Approval authority on all NETP is DCS, G  3/ 5/7. 7  20.  Agencies requiring new equipment training A variety of agencies may require training on new equipment, as listed below. a.  Instructor and key personnel training (IKPT) is the technical training provided by NET personnel or system- con-tractor personnel to support the initial transfer of knowledge on the operation and maintenance of new equipment as a means of establishing a training capability within proponent schools and NET team. The IKPT will take place as close as possible to the date that a unit or school is scheduled to receive new or improved equipment. As a goal, IKPT should be conducted early enough that the training base is established and producing sufficient graduates (both initial entry and first line supervisors) in time to replace Soldiers who PCS, ETS, or retire from the units who have already completed NET. However, IKPT must be conducted not later than 90 days after equipment is issued to the training base. IKPT usually occurs during the production contract execution phase of the life cycle management model. The IKPT courses update skills of personnel already qualified in the appropriate MOS. The PEOs and PMs program and budget for conduct of IKPT. The NET manager will (1)  Plan and coordinate IKPT. (2)  Monitor the conduct of IKPT. (3)  Program and budget travel and per diem for NET team personnel to attend IKPT. (4)  Provide program and budget projections to MATDEV. b.  The Staff Planners Orientation Course is conducted for staff personnel who are engaged in planning, programming, budgeting, and approving programs for the development, production, distribution, support, and use of new or modified equipment. Normally the orientation is conducted during the research and development phase of system acquisition. For non-developmental item acquisition, this orientation occurs during the production phase. The PEO and PM will fund the Staff Planners Course. The NET manager conducts a staff planners orientation when warranted by the density, popula-tion, and complexity of the new equipment. c.  The new materiel introductory briefing (NMIB) provides advanced information on NET capabilities, fielding proce-dures, and scheduled NET for a gaining ACOM, ASCC, or DRU. A new materiel introductory briefing team provides the NMIB. The PEO and PM fund the conduct of the NMIB. The NET manager will (1)  Provide subject-matter experts to conduct the training briefing. (2)  Provide budgetary projections and funding requirements to the PEO and PM to support the conduct of the NMIB. d.  The NET team instruction is provided to key operators, maintainers, and supervisory or training personnel at a cen-tralized location or individual units. The concept for each NET team will be based on one or more of NET strategies and the program acquisition strategy. The NET team consists of technical personnel that provide the initial transfer of knowledge on the operation and maintenance of new or modified equipment. Use of a NET team does not replace the need for formal resident school training on systems. The PEOs and PMs will provide distribution data to the NET manager, provide a NET support package, and program and budget for NET team requirements. The NET manager will (1)  Determine NET team composition. (2)  Coordinate NET team deployment with the PEOs and PMs, CAPDEV, TNGDEV, and gaining units as required. (3)  Plan and provide program and budget input to MATDEV for NET team requirements. e.  Test support training is provided to support the initial transfer of knowledge on the operation and maintenance of new equipment. This training is provided to personnel supporting developmental and operational tests of the equipment. It includes training for data collectors, testers and evaluators, test players, and technical specialists. The PEOs and PMs fund for test support training. The NET manager will (1)  Provide training input to MATDEV. (2)  Plan, coordinate, and provide training (or monitor contractor training) for test support players. (3)  Review and provide input to the test and evaluation master plan. f.  Logistics assistance representative (LAR) technical training is provided on the operation and maintenance of new or modified equipment. The PEOs and PMs will program and budget for LAR course development, presentation or course material, and travel and per diem of NET team that will conduct LAR training. The NET manager will (1)  Plan, coordinate, and develop LAR training courses. (2)  Monitor and conduct LAR training, as applicable. (3)  Plan, coordinate, and provide program and budget input to the PEO and PM for LAR training. g.  Sustainment-level maintenance training is provided to establish a depot-level repair capability for new or modified equipment and depot maintenance plant equipment. The PEOs and PMs will provide funding for depot-level maintenance training development and the presentation of course materials, to include test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment, provide the depot maintenance work requests to the NET developer for evaluation of training, and fund for depot level maintenance training when the establishment of an organic sustainment capability is part of the program acquisition strat-egy. The AMC will fund sustainment-level maintenance when such capability transfers from contractor logistics support to organic support and AMC has been designated as MATDEV. The NET manager will (1)  Review depot maintenance work request or best commercial practice contractor material for training impact, as required. (2)  Develop, plan, program, coordinate, and monitor depot-level maintenance training, to include training for test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment. (3)  Provide program and budget input for depot level training to the PEOs and PMs. h.  New materiel operation and maintenance training is provided, when needed, to NET managers and NET team in-structors on the initial working knowledge of operation and maintenance for new or modified equipment. The NET man-ager will (1)  Plan, coordinate, and provide program and budget input to the PEOs and PMs for conduct of new materiel operations and maintenance training. (2)  Ensure training is provided to a minimum of two NET team members. Training should be provided after milestone decision review Milestone B, but sufficiently early for NET team to develop a training program prior to the start of the staff planners course and test support training. i.  Technical orientation training addresses topics relative to the description of end items, technical parameters, technical test operations and considerations, maintenance concepts, and logistics support. Although technical in nature and systems oriented, it does not provide in-depth, detailed operation and maintenance skills to the target audience. The duration of training is typically two to five days. This training provides Government personnel with the skills and knowledge necessary to support program management operations, engineering, logistics, and readiness management efforts during and subse-quent to fielding. Technical orientation training is normally conducted by contractor personnel. The PEOs and PMs fund for NET support, and coordinate acquisition strategies, maintenance concepts, and schedules with NET managers. The NET manager will (1)  Develop, plan, program, conduct, and evaluate technical orientation training. (2)  Coordinate training requirements with the PEOs and PMs. (3)  Plan, program, and provide budgetary input to the MATDEVs. 7  21.  Reserve Component considerations a.  New equipment training will take into account the unique challenges inherent in modernizing RC units. Detailed NET planning is essential between MATDEV (PEOs and PMs and NET Managers), and DARNG, CAR, and the gaining commands to ensure that objectives are met. b.  Specific RC NET planning considerations include, but are not limited to, the following: (1)  Sufficient time to ensure adequate planning. (2)  Leader training at RC unit locations. (3)  Sufficient time to program and budget funds to support training. c.  Due to the limited number of training days available to RC units, complex Systems may require that NET be ex-tended. A new equipment training strategy that extends beyond two consecutive annual training periods requires DCS, G  3/5/7 approval. Mobilization personnel are eligible for concurrent training with the gaining unit. Section III Displaced equipment 7  22.  Displaced equipment training determination Displaced equipment and software, while not new to the Army, may be new to a receiving unit. As a result of displaced equipment, training base schools for operators and maintainers have been established. Consequently, units receiving dis-placed equipment may not need extensive training and may not need extensive formalized planning for that training. This determination will be made by the TNGDEV, in coordination with the gaining command and the PM of the displaced system. 7  23.  Reserve Component displaced equipment determination Displaced equipment training will take into account the unique challenges inherent in resetting RC units. Detailed NET planning is essential to mitigate effects of displaced equipment between MATDEV (PEOs and PMs and NET Managers), and DARNG, CAR, and the gaining commands. Due to the limited number of training days available to RC units, complex systems may require that NET be extended. A new equipment training strategy that extends beyond two consecutive annual training periods requires DCS, G  3/5/7 approval. Section IV Doctrine and Tactics Training 7  24.  Doctrine and tactics training summary Doctrine and tactics training provides guidance to commanders, leaders, staff, and crews/operators on how to employ the combat capabilities of new or improved materiel or organizations. When required, DTT is conducted in accordance with the System Training Plan. When required and feasible, DTT should be conducted prior to NET/DET. 7  25.  Doctrine and tactics training policy a.  The requirement for DTT will be based on two determinations: Does the new/improved system significantly change the units how-to-fight doctrine, and does the unit need help learning how to employ the new/improved system to accom-plish its wartime/design mission? b.  TNGDEV will identify the requirement for DTT upon receipt of the draft NET plan or DET plan. This will be accomplished by: (1)  Conducting reviews of the applicable operational concepts generated by the requirements determination process and the organizational and operational plan prepared by CAPDEV for the specific system. (2)  Ensuring timely submission to MATDEV of identification of requirements and the concept for DTT for inclusion in NET plan. c.  If, required, TNGDEV will develop a training strategy to accomplish DTT. In cases where NET may not require DTT, TNGDEV will ensure that NET plan is annotated to show DTT not required. 7  26.  Planning for doctrine and tactics training a.  Planning will be initiated concurrently with the development of NET plans and DET plans. NET plan or DET plan will include DTT concept and execution for training ACOM, ASCC, and DRU personnel. b.  DTT planning covers the uses and functions of a new system or organization that must be transmitted to user per-sonnel, so they can fully exploit the new capabilities and improve combat effectiveness. c.  The DTT planning considerations include: (1)  Threat. (2)  Changes to current doctrine or tactics. (3)  Changes in new system or organization. (4)  Technical complexity of the new system. (5)  Fielding rates. (6)  Training strategy for the new system or organization. (7)  Planned density for the system or organization. (8)  Number of personnel to be trained. (9)  Available personnel to provide DTT. (10)  Environment and location where DTT will be executed. (11)  Capabilities and limitations of units to execute DTT. (12)  Funding. (13)  Sustainment training following DTT. (14)  Software Section V Sustainment Training. 7  27.  Sustainment training coordination This section provides policies and planning considerations for the support of sustainment training upon termination of NET or DET. Sustainment training is a major challenge at all echelons of the Army. The training community may experi-ence difficulty in sustaining or increasing knowledge gained as a result of NET, DET, and other Army training programs. The ACOM, ASCC, DRU, CAPDEV, TNGDEV, MATDEV, and HQDA collectively ensure effective training programs exist or are developed to help sustain the capability of units to conduct training. 7  28.  Sustainment training policy Sustainment training sustains the proficiency of operators and maintainers of the new/improved system achieved during NET/DET or during Generating Force schools and sustains any proficiency of unit leaders to employ the new improved system achieved during DTT or Generating Force schools. Accordingly, it builds on the training and training support used for NET/DET and DTT. a.  The MATDEV designs, develops and provides the training support needed by leaders to sustain proficiency of system operators and maintainers. During NET, the MATDEV train leaders on how to use training support for operators and maintainers. b.  The TNGDEV designs, develops and provides the training support needed by leaders to sustain proficiency of leaders on employment and tactics. During DTT, the TNGDEV trains leaders on how to use training support for system employ-ment. c.  The TNGDEV is responsible to integrate operating/maintaining/employing sustainment into an integrated unit strat-egy for maneuver training (that is, a CATS for each type of MTOE) and for weapons training (that is, a weapons training strategy for each type of MTOE). 7  29.  Sustainment training planning and execution Units must plan to begin sustainment training upon completion of NET/DET and any DTT. Chapter 8 The Army Distributed Learning Program Section I Introduction 8  1.  Description TADLP combines resources of the RA and RC to deliver instruction to Soldiers and units worldwide. TADLP uses IT to develop, implement, and evaluate instruction, enhancing and extending traditional methods of learning. TADLP is an integral component of the institutional, operational, and self-development training domains. TADLP is comprised of Armywide courseware development, the Army e-Learning Program, the ALCMC. TADLP supports the DOD intent to deliver learner centric training when and where required, increasing and sustaining readiness throughout the force, Reg-ular Army and Reserve Component. 8  2.  General a.  DL is the delivery of standardized individual, collective, and self-development training to units, Soldiers, leaders, and Civilians at the right place and right time, using multiple means and technologies, with synchronous, asynchronous and blended student-instructor interaction. (1)  Synchronous interaction occurs when students have immediate communication with their instructor (for example, video tele training, Internet chat rooms, or virtual environments). (2)  Asynchronous interaction occurs when students have delayed communication with their instructor (for example, e-mail, recorded video, online asynchronous discussions, and submission of studies and papers) or when students are engaged in self-paced instruction without benefit of access to an instructor (for example, CD  ROM based courseware, web-based courseware, or correspondence courses). (3)  Blended learning is a mix of synchronous and asynchronous media methodologies to best meet the instructional goal. It combines face-to-face classroom methods with technology-delivered instruction that can be delivered in a resident or nonresident environment to form an integrated instructional approach. b.  DL content/courseware in the U.S. Army is defined as all instructional media, synchronous, asynchronous, and blended, that uses interactive multimedia instruction as the method of instructional delivery. (1)  DL content includes interactive courseware, electronic guides, interactive digital publications to include interactive electronic technical manuals, ePubs, e2books, electronic testing, NET, electronic performance support systems, and com-puter aided instruction, computer managed instruction, electronic job aids, interactive video, virtual and augmented reality, and other interactive instruction using a technology interface. It includes 3D modeling, simulation, interactive training technologies, mobile learning, adaptive learning strategies such as intelligent tutoring, and serious gaming when appropri-ately utilized within the instructional environment. (2)  DL courseware excludes full-scale simulators, part-task training devices in which actual equipment or simulated equipment not integral to the courseware is required for instructional performance, and computer-controlled training ca-pabilities embedded in actual equipment. It also excludes interactive multimedia instruction and courseware developed in a non-digital format or media (for example, paper, film, and analog magnetic tape). c.  DL resources are primarily funded through the Training PEG. Components, ACOMs, and other organizations may fund DL projects and initiatives not included in TADLP to support their training requirements; such projects and initiatives will not be funded by the Training PEG. 8  3.  Training and education through distributed learning a.  DL supports the training and education goals and objectives of major Army programs. It is an integral enabler of the three domains of the Army training system, as described in chapter 1 of this regulation.  b.  DL is part of The Army Training System used by the Army to develop, manage, and conduct training. System com-ponents, institutional training, unit training, and training support will continue to evolve and grow as new technologies and concepts emerge. The Army will continue exploiting DL, enhancing capabilities, producing better- trained Soldiers, sup-porting current training priorities, addressing emerging training requirements, improve readiness, and enabling Army trans-formation. c.  All training and education courses will be designed and developed leveraging DL concepts when training outcomes can be met cost effectively and efficiently. Courses may include combinations of resident and DL modules or sub-courses. Interaction between students and instructors can be synchronous or asynchronous during DL sessions. d.  Blended learning strategies include combinations of DL with resident phases when cost effective and efficient train-ing will result. Blended strategies may also include combinations of different delivery modalities such as simulations and gaming to enhance DL training. 8  4.  Distributed Learning courses TADLP implements DL policy in the Army, incorporating the guidance and priorities provided in The Army Plan. a.  DL courseware will be used for the following DA military and civilian training and education courses: (1)  MOS courses; ASI, SQI, and LIC courses. (2)  Reclassification courses. (3)  Officer courses. (a)  Functional area courses. (b)  Branch qualification courses. (c)  Warrant Officer technical certification. (d)  PME courses, for example the OES. (4)  NCO courses, for example the NCOPDS. (5)  Civilian courses, for example the CES. (6)  Functional training, task based training, self-development, and DL capable education courses. b.  DL courseware will not be used as the exclusive delivery method for the following courses: officer pre-commission-ing training; officer basic courses; WO pre-appointment training; the WOBC; IMT; and high-risk training (for example, airborne, ranger, and special forces). These courses will continue to be taught at designated training centers in accordance with existing Soldier development practices. DL can and should support initial training as appropriate and may be used as a blended instructional approach. c.  DL courseware should be used where practical for NET and sustainment training of IT systems and weapons systems. Organizations developing or sustaining such systems should contact TCM TADLP to identify needs for use of existing Army DL infrastructure for hosting, delivery, and management support of their training content. d.  The Department of the Army is committed to making its electronic and information technologies accessible to indi-viduals with disabilities in accordance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 USC 794d), as amended in 1998. For more information about Section 508, please visit the DOD Section 508 website: http://dodcio.defense.gov/home.aspx. 8  5.  Army e-Learning a.  The Army e-Learning Program, comprised of commercial off-the-shelf computer-based and web-based DL courseware, is the preferred method for all Army organizations to accomplish workforce training in IT. Army e-Learning courseware supports and is available to the operational, institutional, and self-development training domains. b.  IT training. Army e-Learning is the primary source of initial and sustainment IT training for Soldiers and Army Civilians beyond IMT, PME, and/or CES. Alternative sources of instruction may be used in place of Army e-Learning courses when courses are not available through Army e-Learning. (1)  Army organizations will determine the workforce IT skills required to execute their mission. Organizations will then determine which skills can be trained through the Army e-Learning Program and which skills require alternative sources of instruction. (2)  Army schools will include appropriate Army e-Learning resources when developing IT courses or other courses that contain IT subject matter. Alternative sources of instruction, including instructor-led classroom training, may be used only when the required instruction is unavailable through Army e-Learning. (3)  Before using non-Army e-Learning IT training resources, Army schools and organizations must receive permission from the Army e-Learning Program Office. Schools and organizations must submit a permission request waiver delineating the requirement, analysis of Army e-Learning resources efforts to fulfill the requirement, a description of the proposed alternative resource, and its expected benefits. Additionally, the request must include a legal review to ensure no conflicts of interest exist. The request for waiver must be endorsed by the organization/s commander (general officer) or director (SES), and forwarded through their higher headquarters to the Army e-Learning Program Office. Organizations may appeal the decision of the Army e-Learning Program Office to the Office of the Army CIO/G6 in accordance with the procedures identified in paragraph 2  4. c.  There is no cost to individuals or organizations for utilization of Army e-Learning courses and products. Individuals must have an AKO account to register for Army e-Learning courses. Course registration is accomplished online through the ATRRS website (www.atrrs.army.mil). After AKO registration, individuals may enroll in an unlimited number of Army e-Learning courses. Section II Developing and Implementing Distributed Learning 8  6.  Distributed learning governance; approval process for distributed learning courseware development The TCM TADLP will establish an Armywide process, to include the ARNG and the USAR, for the development, man-agement, registration, and delivery of DL courseware that reduces duplication of effort, ensures conformance with appli-cable standards, ensures cost effectiveness, and mandates the use of the ALCMC for DL courseware. This policy directs the implementation of a DL courseware review and approval process. This policy applies to all Army activities, to include but not limited to, ACOMs, ASCCs, DRUs, PMs, and PEOs. a.  The TCM TADLP is the responsible office for establishing an Armywide process for the development, management, registration, and delivery of DL courseware. The TCM TADLP will (1)  Establish a review, approval, and registration process for all DL courseware as defined in paragraph 8  4. (2)  Ensure proposed DL courseware is not already available in the ALCMC, Joint Knowledge Online, or other sources. (3)  Maintain registry of all DL courseware governed under this paragraph. (4)  Co-chair the DL courseware management review board with DCS, G  3/5/7 to review DL courses for development, as defined in paragraph 7  4 on a bi-annual basis. Using the Training Support Enterprise Process, the TCM  TADLP con-ducts courseware verification/prioritization through the bi-annual Program Management Reviews during which all agen-cies verify that their respective nominations will remain relevant. The DL/IT COC verifies the prioritization list and for-wards recommendations to the CG, TRADOC for final approval, funding and implementation.  (5)  Ensure DOD-wide reusability, registration of DL courseware; mitigate duplication of DL courseware/content, max-imize consolidated contracting approved by TCM  TADLP, and low-cost or no-cost solutions including the reuse of courseware developed in-house by Army agencies. (6)  The ALCMC provides easy access to courseware/content, facilitates centralized entry for students accessing DL courseware and/or content, provides centralized record keeping, and utilizes a suite of common tools across DL courseware/content repositories for courseware/content development. (7)  When possible leverage other Services Government courseware that meets Army training requirements. b.  The TCM TADLP is the responsible office for establishing an Army-wide process for the development, management, registration, and hosting environment for mobile learning products (apps and interactive digital publications). (1)  Manage activities; and establish a review, approval and registration process for all mobile learning products. (2)  Ensure proposed mobile learning products are not already available. (3)  Establish a mobile learning nomination board and post development approval board. (4)  Ensure reusability, registration; mitigate duplication, maximize consolidated contracting through TCM TADLP, and low-cost or no cost solutions including use of TCM TADLP in-house development. (5)  Establish in-house development capability for mobile products. c.  All Army agencies will (1)  Coordinate with TCM TADLP to provide and register current and future DL courseware as defined in paragraph 7  4. (2)  Coordinate with TCM TADLP before developing requirements for development of new DL courseware/content to ensure that a similar product does not already exist within the ALCMC, Joint Knowledge Online, or other sources in accordance with DODD 1322.18; DODI 1322.26; this regulation; and TRADOC. (3)  Allocate adequate and appropriate resources to ensure successful development. The allocation of adequate instruc-tional system designers, subject matter experts, TNGDEVs, and quality assurance representatives is a prerequisite respon-sibility of the school, implied by receipt of funds and approval for courseware development. (4)  The current TCM TADLP manages the preferred contract vehicles for the development of all DL, Mobile and Interactive Digital Publications content for the Army. Proponent schools may use other contract vehicles upon approval from TCM, TADLP. The TCM TADLP is responsible for the review and approval process for the development of all DL content. All DL development must comply with specifications in the following references: DODD 1322.18; DODI 1322.26; this regulation; and TRADOC Regulation 350  70 and TRADOC Pamphlet 350  70  12. (5)  This guidance applies to all expenditures, including (but not limited to) contractor supported DL development or maintenance and in-house development by government personnel. 8  7.  Distributed learning development prioritization Army Staff, ACOM commanders, and proponent schools will consider the following factors when determining which training and education activities will be delivered by DL and when prioritizing their development. a.  Mission-critical (for example, training requirements that support Overseas Contingency Operations or home- station training for mission units). b.  Initiatives that support reducing deaths, injuries, and time lost to accidents. c.  Current and emerging Army training priorities. d.  Suitability of learning content for DL delivery. e.  Impact on training throughput for Soldiers and units. f.  Ability of developed content to be reused. g.  Cost of courseware development compared to its anticipated return on investment. h.  Availability of off-the-shelf (commercial or government) DL courseware. 8  8.  Distributed learning implementation a.  Distributed learning courseware and class size will be prescribed by TRADOC. b.  The TRADOC, AMEDD, USASOC, ARNG, USAR, school commandants, and quota source managers, in coordi-nation with proponent schools and DL sites, may move students to fill seats at the closest feasible DL facility. (1)  When training and education is required, and it is available by DL at home-station, appropriate authority will sched-ule Soldiers for training by DL at home-station. The home-station includes the geographic area within a 50-mile radius of a Soldiers unit of assignment. (NOTE: the 50-mile radius is based on the premise of a one-hour drive from the unit of assignment to the home-station site.) Commanders may request exceptions to home-station training on a case- by-case basis if the training requirement cannot be satisfied at home-station. Approval authority resides with the Soldiers ACOM commander. Possible exceptions include non-availability of DL training at home-station to satisfy a time-critical require-ment for reassignment. (2)  When the required training is available at a DL facility other than home-station, the use of TDY training travel funds is authorized for ARNG and USAR Soldiers if they are unable to satisfy the course or phase training requirement at home-station and travel outside a 50-mile radius of the Soldiers unit of assignment is required. c.  Senior commanders will determine the most efficient classroom scheduling given the availability of training seats. Commanders will evaluate mission requirements and TDY funds availability, where there is minimum capacity for the required training at available classes and locations. ACOMS, ASCCs, and DRUs will provide scheduling oversight, prior-ity resolution, and resource prioritization. 8  9.  Course information a.  Training proponents will enter course information about Army training, including DL courses, into ATRRS. b.  Training proponents adding DL courses to ATRRS will ensure courses are included in the TACITS survey, and will identify individual training requirements through the TACITS, SMDR, and TRAP processes in accordance with AR 350  10. c.  Training proponents will announce new DL courses with an ATRRS system message at least 3 months before intro-duction and scheduled course start date. Proponents will coordinate with Army G  1 prior to announcement of new DL training. Request exceptions to this requirement from CG, TRADOC. At a minimum, the message will contain information about the school teaching the course, course title, course number, scope and prerequisites, mode of delivery and, for syn-chronous phases, planned sites for reception. d.  All courses with DL components, regardless of the duration of the components, will be identified as a DL course for tracking purposes only and will not be identified as DL in official student records or transcripts. 8  10.  Training a.  Instructional design.  Training proponents Armywide will design DL courseware in accordance with guidance and regulations of CG, TRADOC. b.  Student recycling and attrition.  Student failure to complete courses or meet standards will be handled in accordance with current Army training regulations and policies. c.  Course completion.  For a particular course, Students must satisfy all requirements included in the course student evaluation plan to receive credit. d.  Program certification.  Program certification requires students successfully complete all designated or required courses. Certification requirements will be delineated in the course student evaluation plans. Students will demonstrate competence by showing mastery of training and course objectives (this regulation and officer branches determine degree of technical competence) prior to award of the certification. 8  11.  Eligibility The following categories of personnel may access DL: a.  Qualified Army military and Army Civilian personnel. b.  Qualified military and civilian personnel of other services. c.  Personnel employed by other DOD agencies and other Government agencies on a space available basis. d.  Personnel employed by non-DOD federal agencies and local and state government agencies on a space-available, reimbursable basis unless otherwise specified by formal agreement or directive. e.  Civilian personnel of industrial or research organizations under contract to the Government when such training is not otherwise available and is essential for fulfillment of the contract, and others authorized by ARNG shared usage agree-ments. f.  Qualified service academy and ROTC cadets. g.  Authorized foreign nationals when such training is determined to be in the best interests of the United States. 8  12.  Selection and enrollment a.  Students in resident and DL quota managed courses will be enrolled through ATRRS. b.  Students are encouraged to enroll in self-development through approved enrollment systems. c.  Commanders, school commandants, and quota managers will ensure that students scheduled for training: (1)  Meet all course prerequisites. (2)  Comply with Army height and weight standards. (3)  Are provided a welcome packet that identifies course scope and prerequisites, individual equipment, and materials needed for course attendance, as necessary. d.  Students reporting for training that do not meet the course prerequisites will be entered in ATRRS for tracking pur-poses designated showed, did not begin training, or with the appropriate reason code and returned to their units. Soldier pre-PCS qualification training will be fulfilled by DL courses when feasible. If DL course lengths or schedules do not support required assignment report dates or critical unit mission time requirements, Soldiers will be sent TDY en route to a traditional resident program of instruction. e.  Quota source managers or course managers input data into ATRRS to make reservations or changes to existing schedules or reservations. (1)  Students will be informed of actual course and individual course, phase, and component dates in accordance with existing policies and procedures. (2)  Training Operations Management Agency, TRADOC, and training proponents will post changes to class dates in ATRRS. f.  HQDA mandatory training (1)  Soldier participation in HQDA mandatory training delivered with DL will be scheduled during the Soldiers normal duty day or in accordance with the published class schedule for the course. As a tool for commanders to gauge the number of duty hours Soldiers require to finish a DL course, the administrative information for DL courses will include the rec-ommended daily training time required to complete the course. (2)  The Soldiers place of duty will be the DL facility when training is scheduled at a DL facility. (3)  While Soldiers are attending DA directed or quota managed DL courses, commanders will exempt them from all other duties and provide adequate time for homework as recommended by the course syllabus. g.  Self-development training. (1)  Commanders may allot duty time at their discretion for Soldiers to complete self-development training. (2)  Soldiers may complete self-development courses in a DL facility. HQDA encourages commanders, but does not require them, to provide Soldiers with the opportunity to complete self-development training during the duty day. h.  Wait list. A course wait list will be maintained in ATRRS in accordance with existing school policies for quota managed courses. 8  13.  Compensation of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve personnel for electronic-based distributed learning a.  Intent.  To establish guidance for implementation of paid compensations for members of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve not in active service or on active duty (to include State active service or active duty) who are directed by their commanders to complete training requirements by means of electronic-based DL as authorized by 37 USC 206(d). Training authorized for compensation must support Pre-deployment readiness and mobilization requirements. b.  Responsibilities. (1)  ASA (M&RA) (a)  Oversees policies for electronic-based DL to ensure compliance with statutory responsibilities and DOD require-ments. (b)  Provides oversight for the development of Army policies for Reserve compensation and related matters for elec-tronic-based DL courses available to members of the ARNG/Army National Guard of the United States and the USAR. (c)  Is the approval authority of the electronic-based DL course list. (d)  Is the approval authority for course waivers submitted by the DCS G  3/5/7. (2)  DCS, G  1: (a)  Develops Army personnel policy and entitlement guidance for electronic-based DL compensation based on priori-ties set by the DCS, G  3/5/7. (b)  Operates the ATRRS as the system of record for all institutional training and electronic-based DL courses. (c)  Identifies personnel readiness requirements supported by electronic-based DL and coordinates the prioritization of efforts with the  DCS, G  3/5/7. (d)  Provides Soldiers direct access for enrollment through the ATRRS electronic-based DL website. (e)  Is responsible for appropriately annotating all approved electronic-based DL courses within the ATRRS. (3)  DCS, G  3/5/7: (a)  Establishes priorities for electronic-based DL training. (b)  Serves as the proponent for the Army DL Program, including policies and procedures required to support imple-mentation and sustainment of electronic-based DL. (c)  Exercises responsibility for Soldier training education courses using electronic-based DL. (d)  Coordinates with the DCS, G  1 in developing policies, procedures and programs for electronic-based DL. (e)  Provides guidance on operating an electronic-based DL training environment and ensures that training development policies are standardized. (f)  Is responsible for developing the list of authorized and eligible electronic-based DL courses. (g)  Is responsible for submission of all course waivers to ASA (M&RA). (h)  Is responsible for submission of the electronic based DL course list to the combined (DL/IT) COC for validation. (4)  Chief, NGB: (a)  Publishes policies and procedures for the ARNG/Army National Guard of the United States. (b)  Coordinates with TRADOC to develop and implement automated training, education design capability, electronic- based DL reach-back and life-long learning capabilities. (c)  Serves as the office of primary responsibility for the training and technology components of electronic-based DL for the ARNG. (d)  Ensures the interoperability of ARNG electronic-based DL technologies with the Army DL Program. (e)  Synchronizes the prioritization of electronic-based DL courseware development with TCM  ADLP. (f)  Submits requests for courses not in ATRRS through DCS, G  3/5/7 through DCS, G  3/5/7 to ASA M&RA. Requests must provide sufficient detail to identify how course meets Pre-deployment Readiness and Mobilization requirements. (5)  CAR and CG, USARC: (a)  Publish policies and procedures for the USAR. (b)  Coordinate with TRADOC to develop and implement automated training, education design capability, electronic-based DL reach-back and life-long learning capabilities. (c)  Serve as the office of primary responsibility for the training and technology components of electronic-based DL for the USAR. (d)  Ensure the interoperability of USAR electronic-based DL technologies with the Army Distributed Learning Pro-gram. (e)  Synchronize the prioritization of electronic-based DL courseware development with TCM  ADLP. (f)  Submit waivers for course not in ATRRS through DCS, G  3/5/7 (DAMO  TRI) through DCS, G  3/5/7 to ASA (M&RA). Waivers must be specific in detail to identify how course meets Pre-deployment Readiness and Mobilization requirements. (6)  CG, TRADOC: (a)  Implements the Army DL Program and provides oversight for the implementation and integration of electronic-based DL throughout the life of the program. (b)  Provides guidance and processes for the prioritization, design, development and implementation of electronic- based DL courseware and delivery methods. (c)  Ensures that proponents of electronic-based DL courses set the number of hours allowed to complete each course. (d)  Coordinates training requirements for electronic-based DL with HQDA (DCS, G  1 and DCS, G  3/5/7); the DARNG; and CAR. (7)  Commanders of ACOMs, ASCCs. and DRUs: (a)  Coordinate training development and initiatives for electronic-based DL with TRADOC for the Army Distributed Learning Program. (b)  Coordinate training requirements for electronic-based DL with TRADOC and the DCS, G  1 to ensure accurate entries in ATRRS. (c)  Coordinate resource requirements for electronic-based DL course delivery, such as training aids, personnel and equipment, with the appropriate lead agency. (d)  Coordinate with TRADOC to develop and implement automated training, education design capability, electronic- based DL reach-back and life-long learning capabilities. (8)  CG, HRC: (a)  Participates in reviews of electronic-based DL courses to validate their effect on personnel readiness. (b)  Identifies, through the DCS, G  1 to ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs, additional or alternative electronic- based DL courses required to meet personnel readiness requirements. (c)  Coordinates, through the DCS, G  1, the building of necessary system interfaces between the ALMS and existing and future human resources systems for qualification, verification and credit through the Army Training Requirements and Resources System. (9)  The head of each special branch (TSG, TJAG, and the Chief of Chaplains) retain exclusive authority within their areas of responsibility for: (a)  Publishing policies and procedures to electronic-based DL support training requirements for the ARNG/ARNGUS and the USAR. (b)  Serving as the office of primary responsibility for the training and technical components of electronic-based DL in support of the ARNG/Army National Guard of the United States and the USAR. (c)  Coordinating with TRADOC and non-TRADOC schools to develop, implement and manage training, education design capability, electronic-based DL reach-back and life-long learning capabilities. c.  Guidance. (1)  Courses designated as eligible for Reserve compensation under the electronic-based DL policy will be appropriately annotated within the ATRRS. (2)  Commanders may direct Soldiers to enroll in and complete electronic-based DL courses that are eligible for com-pensation. Commanders will provide this direction in writing, citing the availability of funds in advance of a Soldier's enrollment. Commanders will also state that the course taken directly supports the unit's readiness. (3)  When scheduling lengthy electronic-based DL courses of instruction, commanders will avoid crossing fiscal years. As prescribed in 37 USC 206(e), periods of duty used to complete electronic-based DL courses in lieu of regularly sched-uled inactive duty training periods shall not exceed four periods per fiscal year. (4)  When electronic-based DL courses are authorized as the training means for equivalent training, the requirement to perform equivalent training in lieu of the regularly scheduled inactive duty training periods within 60 days may be waived. (5)  Initiate payment only when a Soldier satisfactorily completes directed electronic-based DL phases or courses. Each 4 hours of successfully completed qualifying electronics-based DL coursework will earn a Soldier credit for completion of one additional training period. These are categorized as inactive duty training points and are subject to the annual limit on Reserve retirement points that may be credited in an anniversary year toward retired pay by 10 USC 12733 (reference 3). (6)  For phases or courses that total fewer than 4 hours, aggregate the time for directed courses in multiples of 4 hours to establish inactive duty periods and determine eligibility for Reserve compensation and Reserve retirement points. 8  14.  Course credit a.  Granting credit.  Individuals will be granted credit for successfully completing training provided either through a ARNG or USAR training institute, site or center, at a proponent resident school, or a DL facility when the conditions listed in the student evaluation criteria are met. b.  Self-development.  All self-development courses successfully completed will be credited in ATRRS and ATMS. c.  Documentation.  Course-completion documentation in individual Soldiers military personnel records will not indi-cate the mode of instruction. Diplomas, certificates, or DA Forms 1059 will not reflect nonresident, DL, reserve component, or other similar remarks. This is to preclude resident courses or courses taught at AC schools from being considered more favorably than other courses. d.  Records of completion.  All Soldiers who successfully complete a DL course will have the completion recorded in ATRRS and ATMS. All training mandated in accordance with this regulation will be entered or updated in the official personnel file of Soldiers through the ATRRS interface. Course completion data will be transmitted from ATRRS into the Soldiers ITR in DTMS. School generated certificates of completion or ATRRS-generated DA Forms 1059 will be accom-plished via mail or through electronic distribution such as the DL facility fax capability or locked portable document format (.pdf). These documents can be used for promotion point documentation. 8  15.  Student dismissal Handled in accordance with policies of CG, TRADOC. Chapter 9 Culture and Language Section I Introduction 9  1.  Purpose The purpose of this chapter is to address Army culture regional expertise and language (CREL) capabilities, proficiencies, and training in support of a globally responsive and regionally aligned forces. Army forces must be able to operate in and around the culture of populations capable of shaping the security environment and decisive action under complex condi-tions. CREL proficiency is one of the key enabling competencies of landpower. The development of CREL competent Soldiers and units is of the utmost importance for enhancing the Armys ability to be successful in the current and future operational environments. The Army's vision is a globally responsive, regionally engaged Army with an expeditionary mindset that provides ready forces in support of CCDR requirements. A cultural capability is the ability to understand the how and why of foreign cultures and the roles that culture, cultural properties, religion, and geography have in military operations. Foreign language proficiency extends beyond linguists, intelligence analysts, and interrogators to every Soldier and leader, and ranges from the ability to communicate with the aid of language survival tools to skilled linguistic ability with high levels of proficiency. The Army generates individual proficiency in CREL competencies through coordinated and synchronized delivery of CREL education and training in the Army school system; training conducted at home station; at the CTC; during self-development; and while deployed. Unit commanders develop CREL capability in their units by leveraging individuals proficient in CREL competencies to accomplish collective tasks supporting the missions and func-tions the unit is required to perform. Commanders in the field must leverage CREL training resources provided by TRADOC to sustain and enhance the CREL competencies developed during institutional training and education. In most cases, Individual training in the conventional force will focus on gaining and maintaining a basic level of CREL proficiency in core culture and regional/technical competencies. 9  2.  References DODD 5160.41E, DODI 5160.70, CJCSI 3126.01A, AR 11  6, AR 350  20, AR 611  5, AR 621  5, and DA Pam 600  3. 9  3.  Cultural capability, regional expertise, and language proficiency a.  The Army trains Soldiers in three interrelated skills: cultural capability, regional expertise, and language proficiency. All Soldiers must develop CREL competencies to accomplish assigned tasks and missions within a culturally complex operational environment. Senior leaders must have the ability to understand the operational environment at the socio-cultural levels (knowledge of specific cultures, (including culturally specific behaviors, body-language, and cultural prop-erty), societies and groups, as well as the concepts that tie them together). They must also know when to seek assistance from subject matter experts with regional cultural expertise; and have the ability to evaluate and integrate their input into operational plans. All leaders in the Army should be equipped with general conceptual frameworks and trained on how to conduct cultural assessments to assist in understanding regions and partners. These competencies support the globally responsive, regionally engaged Army with an expeditionary mindset, providing ready forces in support of combatant com-mands requirements. b.  Core cultural competencies include areas such as understanding culture, applying organizational awareness, cultural perspective taking, and cultural adaptability. Core culture competencies are required by personnel in an organization, re-gardless of job series or rank, in order to perform effectively in cross-cultural environments. c.  Regional expertise reflects an individuals awareness and understanding of the historical, legal, political, cultural, sociological, economic, and geographic factors of a foreign country or specific global region. d.  The Interagency Language Roundtable scale is the Government standard for measuring language proficiency. The Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center (DLIFLC) is the Armys primary source of foreign language training (resident training, MTT, DL, and other products). 9  4.  Training categories While all Soldiers require CREL training, they generally fall into three categories: specialists, leaders, and the conventional force. a.  Specialists. These include those Soldiers who require language proficiency and an advanced level of knowledge, skills and attributes that pertain to the culture and language of a particular nation or region of the world to perform their mission. These include select individuals such as Army special operations forces, FAO, cryptologic linguist analysts, in-terpreter/translators, and HUMINT (language capable) Soldiers. b.  Leaders must have the ability to understand the operational environment at the socio-cultural levels (knowledge of specific cultures, societies and groups, as well as the concepts that tie them together). All leaders in the Army should be equipped with general conceptual frameworks and trained on how to conduct cultural assessments to assist in understand-ing regions and partners. Leaders need to understand how culture and foreign language capabilities affect mission accom-plishment. Leaders must also be able to consider second and third order effects of culture in cross-cultural situations. These competencies are gained through both operational experience and institutional training. c.  All Soldiers in the conventional force should possess the mindset to adapt and function in a foreign country. While the Army cannot expect all conventional forces to be experts in a specific culture or have advanced language proficiency, the ability to attune to a region or operational area and have situational awareness of the cultural dynamics is needed. These capabilities will be gained and reinforced through institutional, operational, and self-development throughout a career. Section II Cultural Capability and Regional Expertise 9  5.  Responsibilities CG TRADOC is the responsible official for Army Cultural Training (see chap 2). CG, TRADOC may delegate this re-sponsibility within TRADOC. 9  6.  Terms The following terms clarify this section and are currently used in the Army Culture and Foreign Language Strategy. a.  Cultural capability enables the execution of individual and collective tasks necessary for a unit to accomplish its assigned mission. It is a blend of cross-cultural and regional competencies that allows a Soldier to help forecast and favor-ably influence the behavior of a target group or society. b.  Cross-cultural competence (3C) does not focus on a single region. It is a general awareness of the cultural concepts of communication, religion, norms, values, beliefs, behaviors, gestures, attitudes, and regional history. Also, 3C involves self-awareness of ones own culture and the skills to interact effectively with other cultures. c.  Regional competence comes from a Soldiers ability to apply 3C concepts to the study of a single or multiple regions. 9  7.  Cultural capability levels The importance of cultural capability increases over time as a Soldier advances in rank and responsibility. A Soldiers primary focus will also shift from 3C to regional competence over time. Three levels of cultural capability exist. From lowest to highest, they are cultural awareness, cultural understanding, and cultural expertise. a.  Cultural awareness is the lowest level of cultural capability and is achieved when generalists learn culture fundamen-tals, achieve some cultural self-awareness, and have a functional knowledge of cultural skills. b.  Cultural understanding denotes a firm grasp of 3C and a comprehensive level of regional competence. Generalist Soldiers at this level are able to accomplish the mission in a specific geographic area. c.  Cultural expertise is the level of a foreign area officer or other cultural professionals command of a region. Cultural expertise denotes sophisticated competence in a single region or multiple regions religion, laws, traditions, customs, gov-ernment, economy, geography, regional history, and methods of communication. Cultural experts will often have profi-ciency in one or more languages associated with a region. Cultural expertise exists at the nexus of 3C, regional competence, and language proficiency. 9  8.  Cultural capability evaluation Unlike language ability, cultural capability is not measured by a test, such as the Defense Language Proficiency Test. Instead, the measure of cultural capability lies in the general and scenario-specific training received. Commanders should monitor cultural training as part of the units ability to operate in a given OE. 9  9.  Cultural training domains Culture training occurs across the three training domains: Institutional, Operational, and Self-Development. a.  Institutional.  Cultural training is a part of the institutional training base from IMT to SSC. It is incorporated in the unit training model and institutional training venues where cultural training is embedded in existing courses. Foreign area officers (FAO) represent a portion of our advanced trained linguists and cultural experts. Foreign area officers have higher required standards for cultural capability, and are focused on specified regions. Information concerning FAO functions is contained in DA Pam 600  3. (1)  Pre-commissioning sources. (a)  Reserve Officer Training Corps.  TRADOC is responsible for the program to incentivize cultural studies. This pro-gram, pursuant to approval, may include monetary and non-monetary incentives as well as the opportunity for summer Cadet Language and Cultural Immersion training deployments in support of Army Security Cooperation objectives and the Language Regional Expertise and Culture Strategy. (b)  U.S. Military Academy and Reserve Officer Training Corps.  Cadet Troop Leader Training provides the opportunity for cadets to spend the summer with units serving OCONUS. (2)  Initial military training (BOLC only).  Cross-cultural competency training is a part of a Soldiers initial training. active duty personnel and RC personnel, before the completion of the first year of active duty and RC affiliation, respec-tively, will receive initial culture training. (3)  NCOPDS.  The ALC, SLC, MLC and SMC incorporate cross-cultural competency training in their courses. (4)  WOAC and CCC.  All courses incorporate cross-cultural competency training.  (5)  Command and General Staff Officers course.  A Cultural and Military Operations module is part of the core curric-ulum. Command and General Staff Officer Course (CGSOC) will offer a regional study elective, a lecture series and an International Fellows presentation. (6)  U.S. Army War College.  The USAWC offers a regional studies elective, a current operationally oriented sympo-sium, a lecture series geared toward cultural differences in policy, and an optional conversational foreign language course. b.  Operational.  All units must receive culture and language training that specifically orients them to the area to which they will deploy. Leaders must receive additional training on the military, historical, political, cultural, economic, and religious environments of the area to which they will deploy. (1)  Combat training centers and home station training.  MTTs train Soldiers on use of particular cultural issues related to specific regions prior to deployment during the Train-Ready phase. Units should maximize utilization of Soldiers with Native or Heritage foreign language proficiency in training as applicable. Additionally, native-speaking role players are used at CTCs and mobilization stations to replicate the OE. (2)  Pre-deployment Cultural Training. This training is incorporated prior to the CTC so that skills may be trained in that environment. (3)  Sustain trained, ready and available forces as units train on their METL and begin to focus on a particular region or environment in accordance with ASCC guidance. (4)  The TRADOC Culture Center produces and exports educational products and sends MTTs to deploying units. The MTTs bring pre-deployment training to home stations, mobilization sites, and CTCs. (5)  Input into the Defense Readiness Reporting System-Army.  Unit commanders will assess their readiness based on having received the training. Situational training exercises and the replication of the OE assist the commander to assess their unit and also serve to assess the effectiveness of the training. This assessment is entered into the Defense Readiness Reporting System-Army (DRRS  A) as Yes (Y) if received the training, or No (N) if not. c.  Self-development.  Unit leaders will make available a robust and proactive range of culture and foreign language self-development tools and methods to encourage and support Soldiers. (1)  Soldiers may have to spend time in independent study to fully realize the benefits of training and education started in institutional and operational venues. (2)  Distance learning. Unit commanders will encourage Soldiers to take advantage of culturally-orientated gaming, computer simulations, and other on-line training opportunities. Section III Language Proficiency 9  10.  Responsibilities DCS, G  2, in coordination with DCS G  3/5/7, will develop and provide the Armys language training priorities yearly via the strategic language list (SLL), and review this list annually. 9  11.  Language training domains The Army provides culturally based language training in three different domains: institutional, operational, and self-de-velopment. a.  Institutional. (1)  Pre-commissioning language training sources. (a)  ROTC. TRADOC is responsible for the administration of the OSD Cadet Language Incentive Program to incentiv-ize foreign language studies for ROTC cadets that include monetary incentives. The program develops and implements on-campus cultural studies and foreign language incentive programs at ROTC colleges and universities; and pre-commis-sioning study abroad. (b)  USMA. The USMA will offer cadets study opportunities in languages listed in the DOD strategic language list for training. (2)  DLIFLC. (a)  Resident, culturally based, language training is provided at the DLIFLC, at the Presidio of Monterey, CA and at its campus in Washington, DC. Resident basic courses provide the student with a limited working proficiency in reading and listening, and elementary proficiency plus in speaking (2/2/1+). The DLIFLC also provides full-time resident intermediate, advanced, remedial, refresher, and cross-training language instruction in accordance with programmed requirements. Un-programmed requirements are addressed on a case-by-case basis in accordance with AR 350  20. DLIFLC also provides training at language training detachments and with MTTs. (b)  A skill qualifications identifier of L is awarded to Soldiers who score a 2/2 in listening and reading on the Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT). (c)  Based on MOS, Soldiers attend the DLIFLC resident basic courses to graduate with a 2 (listening) / 2 (reading) / 1+ (speaking) as described by the Interagency Language Roundtable scale. (3)  The Army Special Operations Forces (ARSOF) provides internal foreign language training through the ARSOF Language Training Program. (a)  The Army Special Operations Forces Language Office serves as a USASOC special staff element to manage the ARSOF Language Training Program. The ARSOF Command Language Program conducts institutional training for initial acquisition. (b)  Management of all aspects of ARSOF language training resides within the U.S. Army JFK Special Warfare Center and School, Directorate of Training and Doctrine, Training Development Division, ARSOFLO. USASOC oversees the management of the ARSOF Language Training Program. (4)  Professional Military Education. The CGSOC includes the opportunity for language familiarization based upon the OE and DOD SLL. (5)  English as a second language training (ESL). ESL training is conducted at the Defense Language Institute English Language Center, Lackland, AFB, TX 78236  5259. The mission of the Defense Language Institute English Language Center is to give entry level Soldiers and allied military personnel English language skills necessary for success while training with U.S. institutions or units. (a)  Resident training is provided for the following: 1.  Soldiers with a first language other than English who require ESL training prior to entering IET or a branch Officer Basic Course, or before appointment as a WO. 2.  Allied military personnel under the Security Assistance Program. (b)  Nonresident ESL instruction and remedial reading, writing, and speaking courses are provided for RA Soldiers with a native language other than English who have been identified by their commanders as having difficulty speaking or un-derstanding English. All RC personnel are eligible to attend these courses. The training is conducted: 1.  At the local Army Education Center through services provided in accordance with AR 621  5. 2.  In overseas commands for allied military personnel at international installations. b.  Operational. (1)  Pre-deployment training. Current pre-deployment guidance is for all deploying Soldiers to complete DLIFLCs Rapport and Head Start 2 Programs. Rapport is a four to six hour DL tool that introduces the Soldier to the language and culture of a specific contingency theater. Deploying Soldiers train with Rapport; however, one Soldier per deploying pla-toon may undergo more rigorous curriculum of culturally based language training in either the form of a 16 week language training detachment, or completion of Head Start 2, an 80  100 hour DL platform available in 12 strategic languages. Commanders may request MTTs for those languages or target areas for which these programs have not been developed. Commanders may also request specialized training in support of language specialists preparing for deployment for whom Rapport and Head Start 2 is not appropriate. Both DLIFLC and the TRADOC Culture Center (TCC) provide MTTs in support of pre-deployment training. All Soldiers must also be able to use the Language Survival Kit. Leaders must train to use interpreters and have some basic foreign language skills for their areas of deployment. (a)  Sustain trained, ready and available forces as units train on their METL and begin incorporating culturally based language training into their training for a particular region or environment, in accordance with ASCC guidance. 1.  Home station training. Pre-deployment guidance will include standards for CREL training. Commanders may request additional resources based on mission requirements. This may include MTTs from DLIFLC to train Soldiers on foreign languages related to specific regions prior to deployment. 2.  CTCs. Native-speaking role players will be allocated for CTCs and mobilization stations to replicate the OE. 3.  DLIFLC may send Language Training Detachments MTTs to mobilization sites to train Soldiers preparing for de-ployment. 4.  MTTs from DLIFLC or the TRADOC Cultural Center may bring pre-deployment training to home stations, mobili-zation sites, and CTCs. (b)  Input into the DRRS  A. Unit commanders will assess their pre-deployment readiness based on having received the training. The situational training exercise and the replication of the OE assist the commander to assess their unit and also serve to assess the effectiveness of the training. This assessment is input into DRRS  A as Yes (Y) if received the training, or No (N) if not. (2)  Unit Sustainment. (a)  The ARSOF Command Language Program conducts unit sustainment and enhancement programs. The ARSOF Command Language Program also conducts contingency programs ready to respond to emerging needs and requirements of ARSOF personnel to operate out of their primary geographic region. (b)  Commanders of other units that require foreign language skills will establish a Command Language Program. They will arrange for nonresident remedial, refresher, sustainment, familiarization, or job-specific foreign language training within their units. DLIFLC exercises technical control of the training in accordance with DODDs, and advises unit com-manders and Command Language PMs of resources available to assist them. Information concerning management of the Defense Foreign Language Program is found in AR 350  20, AR 11  6, and AR 621  5. c.  Self-development. (1)  DLIFLCs DL platform for cultural-based language training, Head Start 2 is currently available in 12 languages at the following website http://fieldsupport.dliflc.edu/products/headstart/index.html. (2)  Head Start 2 is linked to e-Learning and completion of the 80 to 100 hours of instruction will qualify Soldiers for promotion points. (3)  The Very Low Range (VLR) DLPT is specifically designed to support those specialists who have language require-ments at the ILR 1+ level and below. 9  12.  Language education and training documentation All language education and training certifications and validations will be documented in training records in accordance with appendix E.   Appendix A References Section I Required Publications ADP 7  0 Training Units and Developing Leaders (Cited in para 1  8.) ADRP 6  22 Army Leadership (Cited in para 117b.) ADRP 7  0 Training Units and Developing Leaders (Cited in para 1  8.) AD 2012  08 Army Total Force Policy (Cited in para 339a.) AD 2017  13 Department of the Army Senior Enterprise Talent Management Program and Enterprise Talent Management Program (Cited in para 4  16) AR 5  13 Total Army Munitions Requirements Process and Prioritization System  (Cited in para F7a(5).) AR 5  22 The Army Force Modernization Proponent System (Cited in para 231a.) AR 10  87 Army Commands, Army Service Component Commands, and Direct Reporting Units  (Cited in para 231a.) AR 11  6 Army Foreign Language Program  (Cited in para 27v(15).) AR 11  33 Army Lessons Learned Program (ALLP)  (Cited in para 119e.) AR 12  15 Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training  (Cited in para 246h.) AR 20  1 Inspector General Activities and Procedures  (Cited in para 310n.) AR 25  55 The Department of the Army Freedom of Information Act Program  (Cited in para 222v.) AR 27  1 Legal Services, Judge Advocate Legal Services  (Cited in para 217f .)  AR 40  501 Standards of Medical Fitness (Cited in paras 327d.) AR 59  9 Special Assignment Airlift Mission Requirements  (Cited in para G1b(4).) AR 70  1 Army Acquisition Policy  (Cited in para 21a(1).) AR 71  9 Warfighting Capabilities Determination  (Cited in para 7 5.) AR 71  32 Force Development and Documentation  (Cited in para 7  5.) AR 95  1 Flight Regulations  (Cited in para E1h(1).) AR 135  91 Service Obligations, Methods of Fulfillment, Participation Requirements, and Enforcement Procedures  (Cited in para 311c.) AR 135  155 Promotion of Commissioned Officers and Warrant Officers Other Than General Officers  (Cited in para 212l(13).) AR 135  175 Separation of Officers  (Cited in para 315f(1).) AR 135  178 Enlisted Administrative Separations  (Cited in para 315f(1).) AR 135  200 Active Duty for Missions, Projects, and Training for Reserve Component Soldiers  (Cited in para 311e.) AR 140  1 Mission, Organization, and Training  (Cited in para 111a(2).) AR 140  10 Assignments, Attachments, Details, and Transfers  (Cited in para 315n(1) .)  AR 140  111 U.S. Army Reserve Reenlistment Program  (Cited in para 315f(1) .)  AR 140  185 Training and Retirement Point Credits and Unit Level Strength Accounting Records  (Cited in para 325h.) AR 140  483 Army Reserve Land and Facilities Management  (Cited in para 29h.) AR 145  1 Senior Reserve Officers Training Corps Program: Organization, Administration and Training  (Cited in para 3  25.) AR 190  11 Physical Security of Arms, Ammunition, and Explosives   (Cited in para F7a(5) .)  AR 195  2 Criminal Investigation Activities   (Cited in para 247e .)  AR 195  3 Acceptance, Accreditation, and Release of United States Army Criminal Investigation Command Personnel  (Cited in para 330f.) AR 220  1 Army Unit Status Reporting and Force Registration- Consolidated Policies   (Cited in para 53b.) AR 340  21 The Army Privacy Program   (Cited in para 221v.) AR 350  2 Opposing Force (OPFOR) Program   (Cited in para 222m.) AR 350  10 Management of Army Individual Training Requirements and Resources  (Cited in para 2 23z(3) .) AR 350  19 The Army Sustainable Range Program (Cited in para 29h.) AR 350  20 Management of the Defense Foreign Language Program  (Cited in para 247g(3).) AR 350  32 Army Foundry Intelligence Training Program  (Cited in para 28e.) AR 350  50 Combat Training Center Program  (Cited in para 2 9z(6) .) AR 350  51 United States Army Officer Candidate School  (Cited in para 331a.) AR 350  52 Army Training Support System AR 350  66 Small Arms Competitive Marksmanship Program  (Cited in para F7g.) AR 350  100 Officer Active Duty Service Obligations  (Cited in para 311c.) AR 351  9 Inter-service Training  (Cited in para 128d.) AR 351  17 U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School Admissions Program  (Cited in para 3  32.) AR 380  5 Department of the Army Information Security Program  (Cited in para 246h.) AR 380  10 Foreign Disclosure and Contacts with Foreign Representatives  (Cited in para 28j.) AR 381  12 Threat Awareness and Reporting Program  (Cited in paras J4f.) AR 385  10 The Army Safety Program  (Cited in para 4 .)  AR 385  63 Range Safety  (Cited in para 25a(2) .)  AR 420  1 Army Facilities Management  (Cited in para 25a.) AR 525  13 Antiterrorism  (Cited in para 5.) AR 600  8  2 Suspension of Favorable Personnel Actions (Flag)  (Cited in para 313e(1)(a).) AR 600  8  19 Enlisted Promotions and Reductions   (Cited in para 311e.) AR 600  8  22 Military Awards   (Cited in para F5h.) AR 600  8  24 Officer Transfers and Discharges   (Cited in para F5k.) AR 600  8  104 Army Military Human Resource Records Management  (Cited in para 53e(7).) AR 600  8  105 Military Orders   (Cited in para C4c.) AR 600  9 The Army Body Composition Program  (Cited in para 313a.) AR 600  20 Army Command Policy  (Cited in para 118h(4).) AR 600  55 The Army Driver and Operator Standardization Program (Selection, Training, Testing, and Licensing)  (Cited in para 29ii.) AR 600  100 Army Leadership  (Cited in para 58b.) AR 601  280 Army Retention Program  (Cited in para 311e.) AR 611  1 Military Occupational Classification Structure Development and Implementation  (Cited in para 327d.) AR 611  5 Personnel Classification Testing   (Cited in para 9  2.) AR 614  200 Enlisted Assignments and Utilization Management  (Cited in para 111a(2).) AR 621  5 Army Continuing Education System   (Cited in para 325i.) AR 621  7 Army Fellowships & Scholarships   (Cited in para 27u(7).) AR 623  3 Evaluation Reporting System   (Cited in para 326a.) AR 635  200 Active Duty Enlisted Administrative Separations  (Cited in para 328c(3).) AR 690  400 Total Army Performance Evaluation System (Chapter  4302)  (Cited in para E2c.) AR 690  950 Career Management (For Civilian Personnel, not military personnel) (Cited in para 27s.) AR 700  127 Integrated Logistics Support   (Cited in para 7  3.) AR 700  131 Loan, Lease, and Donation of Army Materiel   (Cited in para 33g(3).) AR 700  142 Type Classification, Materiel Release, Fielding, and Transfer   (Cited in para 7  3.) ATP 5  19 Risk Management (Cited in para 120e.) DA Pam 350  38 Standards in Training Commission   (Cited in para 120b.) DA Pam 350  58 Army Leader Development Program   (Cited in para 115g.) DA Pam 420  1  2 Army Military construction and Non-Appropriated Funded Construction Program Development and Execution  (Cited in para 29h.) DA Pam 600  3 Commissioned Officer Professional Development and Career Management  (Cited in para 59e.) DA Pam 600  4 Army Medical Department Officer Development and Career Management   (Cited in para 59f .)  DA Pam 600  8 Management and Administrative Procedures   (Cited in para 221m(6).) DA Pam 600  25 U.S. Army Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development Guide   (Cited in para 510c(1).) DA Pam 611  21 Military Occupational Classification and Structure  (Cited in para 510c(1).) DOD 5500.07  R Joint Ethics Regulation (JER)  (Cited in para 2 21o(7).) DODD 1322.18 Military Training   (Cited in paras 86c(2).) DODD 2311.01E Department of Defense Law of War Program  (Cited in table F  1.) DODD 5160.41E Defense Language Program (DLP)  (Cited in para 9  2.) DODI 1300.21 Code of Conduct (CoC) Training and Education   (Cited in table F  2.) DODI 1322.26 Development, Management, and Delivery of Distributed Learning  (Cited in para 86c(2).) DODI 3305.02 Department of Defense General Intelligence Training and Certification   (Cited in para 28d.) DODI 3305.09 Department of Defense Cryptologic Training (Cited in para 28d.) DODI 5160.70 Management of Department of Defense Language and Regional Proficiency Capabilities  (Cited in para 9 2.) DODI 6055.1 Department of Defense Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program   (Cited in table F  2.) FM 3  21.220 Static Line Parachuting Techniques and Training (Cited in para G26f(6) .)  FM 7  0 Train to Win in a Complex World (Cited in para 1  8.) FM 7  22 Army Physical Readiness Training   (Cited in para 1  23.) FM 7  22.7 The Army Noncommissioned Officer Guide   (Cited in para 510c(2).) Section II Related Publications A related publication A related publication is a source of additional information. The user does not have to read it to understand this regulation. CFRs are available at https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/browse/collectioncfr.action?collectioncode= CFR. CJCS publications are available at http://www.jcs.mil/library/. DOD publications are available at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pub1.html. Executive orders are available at https://www.archieves.gov/federal-register/executive-orders.  USCs are available at https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/browse/collectionuscode.action?collec-tioncode=uscode. AR 1  202 Army Congressional Fellowship Program AR 15  1 Department of the Army Federal Advisory Committee Management Program AR 25  1 Army Information Technology AR 25  2 Information Assurance AR 25  30 The Army Publishing Program AR 40  1 Composition, Mission, and Functions of the Army Medical Department AR 350  38 Policies and Management for Training Aids, Devices, Simulators, and Simulations AR 380  67 Personnel Security Program AR 525  20 Information Operations AR 525  28 Personnel Recovery AR 525  29 Army Force Generation AR 600  3 The Army Personnel Development System AR 600  63 Army Health Promotion AR 670  1 Wear and Appearance of Army Uniforms and Insignia AR 690  12 Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action AR 750  1 Army Materiel Maintenance Policy ADP 6  22 Army Leadership CJCS Guide 5260 Antiterrorism Personal Protection Guide: A Self-Help Guide to Antiterrorism CJCSI 1800.01E Officer Professional Military Education Policy CJCSI 1805.01B Enlisted Professional Military Education Policy CJCSI 3126.01A Language, Regional Expertise, and Culture (LREC) Capability Identification, Planning, and Sourcing CJCSI 3500.01G Joint Training Policy and Guidance for the Armed Forces of the United States CJCSM 3500.03C Joint Training Manual for the Armed Forces of the United States CJCSM 3500.04F Universal Joint Task Manual DA General Order 2006  37 Designation of U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command/Army Strategic Command as an Army Service Compo-nent Command DA Pam 40  11 Preventive Medicine DA Pam 700  142 Instructions for Materiel Release, Fielding, and Transfer DODI 1400.25 Department of Defense Civilian Personnel Management System (Volume 410 (Training Education and Professional De-velopment, and Vol 412 (Civilian Leader Development)) DODI 2200.01 Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTIP) Executive Order 10631 Code of Conduct for Members of the Armed Forces of the United States Executive Order 11382 Amendment of Executive Orders relating to Functions of the Department of Transportation Executive Order 12633 Amending the Code of Conduct for Members of the Armed Forces of the United States Joint Travel Regulations (Available at http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/travelreg.cfm.) PHC Technical Guide Series 255A  E U.S. Army Pregnancy Postpartum Physical Training Program STP 3  CIED  SM  TG Soldiers Manual and Trainers Guide for Counter Improvised Explosive Device STP  21  1  SMCT Soldiers Manual of Common Tasks Warrior Skills Level 1 STP  21  24  SMCT Soldiers Manual of Common Tasks, Warrior Leader, Skill Levels 2, 3, and 4 TB 600  1 Procedures for Selection, Training, Testing, and Qualifying Operators of Equipment/Systems, Excluding Selected Water-craft and Aircraft, Managed/Supported by U.S. Army Troop Support and Aviation Materiel TB 600  2 Procedures for Selection, Training, Testing, Qualifying, and Licensing Operators of Construction Equipment, Materiel Handling Equipment and Armor-Vehicle-Launched Bridge Managed/Supported by U.S. Army Tank-Automotive Materiel Readiness Command TC 21  21 Water Survival Training UCMJ, Art. 15 Commanding Officers Non-judicial Punishment (Available at http://www.ucmj.us/.) 5 CFR Administrative Personnel 5 CFR 335.103(b) Agency promotion programs 5 CFR 410.402 Paying premium pay 5 CFR 410.404 Determining if a conference is a training activity 5 CFR 412.101 Supervisory, Management, and Executive Development 5 CFR 412.202 Systematic training and development of supervisors, managers, and executives 5 CFR 724.101 Implementation of Title II of the Notification and Federal Employee Anti-discrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 5 CFR 2635 Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch 5 CFR 2635.101(b) Basic obligations of public service 5 CFR 2638.704(d) Annual ethics training for public filers 5 USC 2301(b) Merit system principles 5 USC 4101 Definitions 5 USC 4101 et seq. Training 5 USC 4108 Employee agreements; service after training 5 USC 4109 Expenses of training 5 USC 4110 Expenses of attendance at meetings 5 USC 5946 Membership fees; expenses of attendance at meetings; limitations 10 USC Armed Forces 10 USC 87 Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act 10 USC 101(e)(1) (A) and (B) Definitions 10 USC 164 Commanders of combatant commands: assignments, powers, and duties 10 USC 167 Unified combatant command for special operations forces 10 USC 663 Joint duty assignments after completion of Joint professional military education 10 USC 671 Members not to be assigned outside United States before completing training 10 USC 983(c) and (d)(2) Institutions of higher learning that prevent ROTC access or military recruiting on campus: denial of grants and contracts from Department of Defense, Department of Education, and certain other departments and agencies 10 USC 10147 USAR IDT periods and AT duration 10 USC 1701 et seq. Defense Acquisition Workforce 10 USC 1733 Critical acquisition positions 10 USC 3013(b) Secretary of the Army 10 USC 3037(c)(2) Judge Advocate General, Deputy Judge Advocate General, and general officers of Judge Advocate Generals Corps: ap-pointment; duties 10 USC 12205(a) and (d) Commissioned officers: appointment; educational requirement 10 USC 12733 Computation of retired pay: computation of years of service 10 USC 14503 Discharge of officers with less than six years of commissioned service or found not qualified for promotion to first lieu-tenant or lieutenant (junior grade) 32 USC (Section 502 (IDT/AT)) National Guard 37 USC 206(d) and (e) Reserves; members of National Guard: inactive-duty training 38 USC 3681 Limitations on educational assistance 42 USC 4321  4347 National Environmental Policy Act Section III Prescribed Forms DA Forms are available on the Army Publishing Directorate website (http://armypubs.army.mil). DA Form 87 Certificate of Training  (Prescribed in paras  354b, 54a, and E  2.) Section IV Referenced Forms Unless otherwise indicated, DA forms are available on the Army Publishing directorate (APD) website http://www.armypubs.army.mil and DD forms are available on the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) website http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/forms/index.htm. SFs are available on the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) website http://www.gsa.gov/portal/forms/type/sf. DA Form 2  1 Personnel Qualification Record DA Form 11  2 Internal Control Evaluation Certification DA Form 705 Army Physical Fitness Test Scorecard DA Form 1058  R Application for Active Duty for Training, Active Duty for Special Work, Temporary Tour of Active Duty, and Annual Training for Soldiers of the Army National Guard and U.S. Army Reserve DA Form 1059 Service School Academic Evaluation Report DA Form 1059  1 Civilian Institution Academic Evaluation Report DA Form 2028 Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms DA Form 3349 Physical Profile (Available at HTTPS://MEDPROS.MODS.ARMY.MIL/EPROFILE/DEFAULT.ASPX?RETURNURL=%2FEPROFILE%FADMIN%2FUSERMANAGER.ASPX). DA Form 3479 Training and Proficiency Record - Air Traffic Controller DA Form 4037 Officer Record Brief (Stocked and issued by Commander, U.S. Army Information Systems Command  Army Reserve Personnel Center OR S&I, COMMANDER, USIASC  ARPERCEN, ATTN: JANE HARRISON, 9700 PAGE BLVD, ST. LOUIS, MO 63132  5200.) DA Form 4187 Personnel Action DA Form 4856 Developmental Counseling Form DA Form 4991  R Declination of Continued Service Statement DA Form 5500 Body Fat Content Worksheet (Male) DA Form 5501 Body Fat Content Worksheet (Female) DD Form 1610 Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DOD Personnel OGE Form 450 Executive Branch Confidential Financial Disclosure Report SF 182 Authorization, agreement and Certification of Training SF 278 Executive Branch Personnel Public Financial Disclosure Report   Appendix B Military Schools, Colleges, and Training Centers Refer to the Army Training Requirements and Resources System (ATRRS) for a complete listing of Army schools and associated courses available at https://atrrs.army.mil. B  1.  Department of Defense Schools a.  Defense Acquisition University, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060 b.  Defense Civil Preparedness Agency Staff College, Battle Creek, MI 49016. c.  Defense Computer Institute, Washington, DC 20374. d.  Defense Information School, Fort Meade, MD 20755 e.  Defense Institute of Security Assistance Management, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433. f.  National Intelligence University, Washington, DC 20390. g.  Defense Mapping School, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060. h.  Defense Resources Management Education Center, Presidio of Monterey, CA 93940. i.  Defense Language Institute/Foreign Language Center, Presidio of Monterey, CA 93940. j.  Defense Language Institute, English Language Center, Lackland AFB, TX 78236. k.  National Cryptologic School, Fort Meade, MD 20755. l.  Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation, Fort Benning, GA 31905 B  2.  Joint Professional Military Education and Training Institutions a.  National Defense University (NDU), consists of the National War College (MEL 1JPMEII), Eisenhower School for National Security and Resource Strategy (MEL I/JPMEII), College of International Security Affairs (CISA)(MELI/JPME II), the College of Information and Cyberspace (JPME II only for Senior Program), General Officer courses CAPSTONE and PINNACLE; and KEYSTONE for command senior enlisted leaders at Fort McNair, Washington, DC 20319. See link: http://www.ndu.edu/academics/collegescenters.aspx for course details. b.  Joint Forces Staff College (JFSC), a part of NDU and located in Norfolk, VA, 23511, consists of: the Joint Advanced Warfighting School (JAWS),a SSC equivalent and JPME II qualification; the Joint and Combined Warfighting School (JCWS), a JPME II qualification; the JCWS-hybrid, a JPME II qualification for RC officers; and available on Joint Knowledge Online, are Senior Enlisted JPME I for E  6 and E  7, and Senior Enlisted JPME II for E  8 and E  9. c.  National Intelligence University, DIA, Boling AFB, DC 20032. d.  HUMINT Training-Joint Center of Excellence, Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613. e.  Joint Counterintelligence Training Academy, Elkridge, MD 21075. f.  Joint Special Operation University (JSOU), MacDill Air Force Base, FL 33608. B  3.  Colleges of the Military Departments a.  U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, PA 17013. b.  U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, KS 66027. c.  U.S. Air Force Air University, Maxwell AFB, AL 36112. d.  U.S. Naval War College, Newport, RI 02840. e.  U.S. Marine Corps University, Quantico, VA 22134. B  4.  Graduate Level Schools of Other Services a.  U.S. Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433. b.  Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA 93940. B  5.  Army schools a.  The Army Force Management School, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060. b.  The Judge Advocate Generals Legal Center and School, U.S. Army, Charlottesville, VA 22903  1781. c.  U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School, West Point, NY 10996. d.  U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY 10996. e.  U.S. Army Inspector General School, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060. f.  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Learning Center, Huntsville, AL 35801. B  6.  U.S. Army Medical Command School U.S. Army Medical Department Center and School, U.S. Army Health Readiness CoE, Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234. B  7.  U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command Centers of Excellence, training centers and schools a.  U.S. Army Maneuver Center of Excellence, Fort Benning, GA 31905 b.  U.S. Army Infantry School, Ft Benning, GA 31905 c.  U.S. Army Armor School, Ft Benning, GA 31905 d.  U.S. Army Fires Center of Excellence, Ft Sill, OK 72503 e.  U.S. Army Field Artillery Center and Fort Sill, OK 73503 f.  U.S. Army Air Defense Artillery Center, Fires Center of Excellence, Fort Sill, OK 73503 g.  U.S. Army Maneuver Support Center of Excellence, Fort Leonard Wood, MO 65473 h.  U.S. Army Engineer School, Fort Leonard Wood, MO 65473 i.  U.S. Army Military Police School, Fort Leonard Wood, MO 65473 j.  U.S. Army Chemical School, Fort Leonard Wood, MO 65473 k.  U.S. Army Sustainment Center of Excellence, Ft Lee, VA 23801 l.  U.S. Army Transportation School, Ft Eustis, VA 23604 m.  U.S. Army Aviation Logistics School, Fort Eustis, VA 23604 n.  U.S. Army Ordnance Center and School, Ft Lee, VA 23801 o.  U.S. Army Ordnance Mechanical Maintenance School, Ft Lee, VA 23801 p.  U.S. Army Ordnance Munitions and Electronics Maintenance School, Ft Lee, VA 23801 q.  U.S. Army Logistics University, Fort Lee, VA 23801 r.  U.S. Army Quartermaster School, Fort Lee, VA 23801 s.  U.S. Army Soldier Support Institute which includes the Adjutant General, Finance, and Recruiting & Retention Schools, Fort Jackson, SC 29207 t.  HQ Civilian Human Resources Agency, Training Management Division, Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 21005 u.  U.S. Army Management Staff College-East, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060 v.  U.S. Army Management Staff College-West, Fort Leavenworth, KS 66027 w.  U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy, Fort Bliss, TX 79918 x.  U.S. Army Institute for NCO Professional Development, Fort Eustis, VA 23604 y.  U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence, Fort Gordon, GA 30905 z.  U.S. Army Signal School, Fort Gordon, GA 30905 aa.  U.S. Army Cyber School, Fort Gordon, GA 30905 bb.  U.S. Army Intelligence Center of Excellence, Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613 cc.  U.S. Army Training Center and Fort Jackson, Fort Jackson, SC 29207 dd.  U.S. Army Chaplain Center and School, Fort Jackson, SC 29207 ee.  U.S. Army Combined Arms Center, Fort Leavenworth, KS 66027 ff.  U.S. Army Cadet Command, Fort Knox, KY gg.  U.S. Army Element, School of Music, Naval Amphibious Base (Little Creek), Norfolk, VA 23521 hh.  U.S. Army Ammunition Center, Redstone Arsenal, AL 35897 ii.  U.S. Army Aviation Center of Excellence and Fort Rucker, AL 36362 jj.  U.S. Army Warrant Officer Career College, Fort Rucker, AL 36362 kk.  U.S. Army Financial Management School, Fort Jackson, SC 29207 ll.  U.S. Army Combined Arms Support Command, Fort Lee, VA 23801 mm.  U.S. Army Recruiting Command, Fort Knox, KY 40121 nn.  U.S. Army Mission Command Center of Excellence, Ft. Leavenworth. KS 66027. B  8.  U.S. Army Forces Command training centers a.  U.S. Army National Training Center and Fort Irwin, CA 92310. b.  Joint Readiness Training Center and Fort Polk, LA 71459. B  9.  U.S. Army Europe Training Center, 7th Army Training Command U.S. Army Seventh Army Training Command, Grafenwoehr, Germany, APO 09114. B  10.  U.S. Army Special Operations training center U.S. Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School, Special Operations Center of Excellence, Fort Bragg, NC 28307. B  11.  Reserve Component training centers a.  National Guard Professional Education Center, Camp Joseph T. Robinson, North Little Rock, AR, 72199. b.  83rd U.S. Army Reserve Readiness Training Center (ARRTC), Fort Knox, KY  c.  National Guard Warrior Training Center, Fort Benning, GA 31905. B  12.  Reserve Component schools of The Army School System a.  USAR. b.  Combat support, combat service support, officer education, NCO education and health service training brigades. c.  Training battalions functionally aligned with TRADOC or MEDCOM proponent schools. d.  ARNG. e.  Combat arms, leadership training, combat support, combat service support, multifunctional regiments and training battalions functionally aligned with TRADOC proponent schools.   Appendix C Prerequisites and Service Obligation Incurred by Attendance at Foreign Military Schools C  1.  Schools that equate to U.S. Senior Service Colleges Officers attending the schools listed in table C  1 are selected by appropriate authority and must be outstanding represent-atives of the Army and of the United States. Years of service are specified for U.S. SSCs. Officers must be graduates of or have credit for ILE or equivalent. On graduation from the listed schools or colleges, individuals will be awarded MEL 1.  C  2.  Schools that equate to Command and General Staff Officer Course Officers attending the schools listed in table C  2 are selected by appropriate authority and must be outstanding represent-atives of the Army and the United States. Officers nominated must desire to attend. On graduation from the listed schools or colleges, individuals will be awarded MEL 4.  C  3.  Schools that require Senior Service College prior to attendance Officers nominated for the schools listed in table C  3 must desire to attend and be graduates of or have credit for SSC or ILE as indicated.  C  4.  Administrative information and instructions a.  An academic evaluation report (DA Forms 1059) will be completed for students in accordance with AR 623  3. SON participants will provide their host school evaluation to their supporting ASCC for transcribing on to the academic evalu-ation report. The ASCC is responsible for signing and processing the completed academic evaluation report. b.  Incurred service obligation is computed from the date of course completion or termination of attendance, whichever is earlier. c.  Officers selected to attend foreign military schools located in NATO countries will be issued NATO travel orders in accordance with AR 600  8  105. d.  Officers assigned to the SON program are authorized direct access to the equivalent U.S. Army schools. When re-quested, Army schools will provide publications and data on their coursed of instruction to officers attending SON schools. e.  Theater Armies will provide HRC and the Army International Division with current, SON-specific special instruc-tions for each SON position in their area of responsibility (AOR) annually, one month prior to the respective Army MEL 4 or MEL 1 selection boards. f.  The U.S. Theater Army is responsible for determining whether concurrent travel of family members, shipment of household goods, and shipment/use of privately owned vehicles is authorized for each SON position. This information will be included in the special instructions submitted to HRC. Theater Armies will refer to current DOD and State Department guidance when making this determination. g.  Students selected to attend a school in a geographical AOR where a priority system for the movement of family members is in effect, will follow the priority system prescribed. h.  When required by the DOD Foreign Clearance Guide and DODD 1000.21, officers selected to attend foreign military schools, and their family members, will have valid passports and visas in their possession before traveling to the overseas destination.   Table C  1 Schools that equate to U.S. Senior Service Colleges  Continued  School or college   Prerequisites   Years of service obligation   Argentina: National Defense School (every four years, 2013, 2017, ...)   O  6, branch immaterial, TOP SECRET Clearance and Spanish language re-quired.   2   Australia: Australian Defence College, Defence and Strategic Studies Course   O  5(P)/O  6, maneuver, fires, and ef-fects (MFE), TOP SECRET clearance.   2   Brazil: Brazilian Escola Superior de Guerra (Superior War College)   O  6, branch immaterial, TOP SECRET, Portuguese required.   2   Canada: Canadian Forces College (Na-tional Security Programme)   O  5(P)/O  6, MFE, TOP SECRET clear-ance.   2   India: National Defense College (Na-tional Security and Strategic Studies Course) (every four years, 2013, 2017, ...)   O  6, MFE, TOP SECRET clearance. English.   2   Inter-American Defense College (The Advanced course in Hemispheric De-fense and Security, located in U.S.)   O  5(P)/O  6, branch immaterial, TOP SECRET clearance, Spanish or Portu-guese required.   2   Japan: National Institute for Defense Studies (Regular Course)   O  6, branch immaterial, Japanese lan-guage required.   2   Jordan: Royal Jordanian National De-fense College (National Defense Course)   O  6, branch immaterial, Arabic re-quired, TOP SECRET clearance.   2   Korea: National Defense University   O  5(P)/O  6, branch immaterial, TOP SECRET clearance, Korean required.   2   **Korea: National Institute for Defense Studies   O  5/O  6, branch immaterial TOP SECRET clearance, Korean required.   2   Pakistan: National Defence University (National Security and War Course)   O  6, MFE, TOP SECRET Clearance. English.   2   UK: Defence Academy of the UK (Royal College of Defence Studies)   O  6, MFE, TOP SECRET clearance. English.   2   Note: 1 Updated annually by Joint Staff J  7; http://dtic.mil/doctrine/education/jme1_equivalency.pdf/. 2 **Not under SON program.   Table C  2 Schools that equate to Command and General Staff Officer Course  Continued  School or college   Prerequisites   Years of service obligation   Argentina: Argentine Escuela Superior de Guerra (Command and General Staff College) 1   O  3(P)/O  4, MFE, TOP SECRET secu-rity clearance, Spanish required. Attends second year of 3-year course.   2   Australia: Australian Command and Staff College1   O  3(P)/O  4, All Career Fields, TOP SECRET security clearance. English.   2   Belgium: Belgian Royal Military Acad-emy (Belgian Superior Staff Course)   O  3(P)/O  4, MFE, Dutch required.   2   Brazil: Brazilian Escola de Commando e Estado-Major do Exercito (Command and General Staff Course for Officers of Friendly Nations) 1   O  3(P)/O  4, MFE, TOP SECRET secu-rity clearance, Portuguese required. Of-ficer attends second year of course.   2   Canada: Canadian Forces College (Joint forces Command and Staff Pro-gramme)   O  4, MFE, English.   2   Estonia: Baltic Defense College (Joint Command and General staff Course)   O  4, MFE, TOP SECRET security clearance, English.   2   France: College Interarmees de De-fense (Joint Staff Course) 1   O  3(P)/O  4, All Career Fields, TOP SECRET security clearance, French re-quired.   2   Germany: Fuhrunqaskademie der Bun-deswehr (German Armed Forces Staff Course) 1   O  3(P)/O  4, MFE, TOP SECRET secu-rity clearance, German required.   2   Ireland: Military College of the Defence Forces Training Centre (Irish Command and Staff College)   O  3(P)/O  4, All Career Fields, English.   2   Table C  2 Schools that equate to Command and General Staff Officer Course  Continued  School or college   Prerequisites   Years of service obligation   Italy: Istituto di Stato Maggiore Interforze (Joint Services Staff Course)1   O  3(P)/O  4, All Career Fields, TOP SECRET security clearance, Italian re-quired. Officer attends second year of this course.   2   Japan: National Defense Academy of Japan (Ground Self-Defense Forces Staff College)*   O  3(P)/O  4, All Career Fields, TOP SECRET security clearance, Japanese required.   2   Kuwait: Mubarak Al-Abdullah Leader-ship * Joint Staff College (Staff and Command course)   O  3(P)/O  4, MFE, TOP SECRET secu-rity clearance, English required, but rec-ommend Arabic.   2   Netherlands: Netherlands Defense Col-lege (Joint Command and General Staff Course)   O  3(P)/O  4, All Career Fields, TOP Se-cret security clearance, Dutch required. This is a 17-month course.   2   Singapore: Goh Keng Swee Command and Staff College 1   O  3(P)/O  4, All Career Fields, TOP SECRET security clearance, English.   2   Spain: Spanish Escuela De Estado Mayor Escuela superior de las Fuerzas Armadas (Curso de Estado Mayor)   O  3(P)/O  4, All Career Fields, Spanish required.   2   Switzerland: Swiss Military College (Mili-tary Academy at ETH Zurich)   O  3(P)/O  4, All Career Fields, German required.   2   United Kingdom: Joint Services Com-mand and Staff College (Advanced Command & Staff Course)   O  3(P)/O  4, MFE, English.   2   **United Kingdom: British Army Staff College1 Command and Staff college   O  3(P)/O  4, branch immaterial, TOP SECRET security clearance. English.   2   **USA: Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation, Fort Benning, GA   O  3(P)/O  4, MFE or OS. (normally each officer personnel management di-rectorate branch and chaplains slate one officer to attend each year), Spanish required.   2     Appendix D Noncommissioned Officer Academy Designations and Regions and Regular Army Regional Quota Managers D  1.  Noncommissioned Officer Academy designations The NCOAs are designated as follows: a.  Noncommissioned officer academies operated by TRADOC, and overseas ASCC commands will be designated as a U.S. Army (command or division/corps/army) Noncommissioned Officer Academy (for example, U.S. Army 3rd Infantry Division Noncommissioned Officer Academy, Fort Stewart, GA). b.  The Chief, NGB and CAR may designate NCOAs as appropriate. D  2.  Noncommissioned Officer Academy regions a.  To ensure that all Soldiers have an opportunity to attend available BLC and ALC, the training base has been divided into geographic NCOA training regions. Sixteen NCOA regions are established worldwide. Alaska, Hawaii, Europe, and Korea are considered as separate regions, with the remaining 12 regions designed to accommodate Soldiers in CONUS and Puerto Rico. The NCOA regions and their composition are shown in table D  1. b.  Each NCOA will provide NCOES training for Soldiers in its assigned geographic region (except as noted in table D  1) to include administrative and logistical support. c.  If certain NCOES training is not available within a region, that regions student population will receive training at the nearest NCOA that offers the training.  Table D  1 Noncommissioned Officer Academy regions  Continued    SCH CODE  LOCATION  STATE & INSTALLATION COM- POSITION  Region 1  680 and 633  Fort Bragg, NC  Fort Bragg Installation Population & State of North Carolina (Code 633 for USASOC personnel only ]  Region 2  698  Fort Benning, GA  Fort Benning Installation Popula-tion  Region 3  682  Fort Stewart, GA  Fort Stewart Installation Popula-tion  Region 4  685  Fort Campbell, KY  Fort Campbell, Fort Knox Installa-tion Population, State of Kentucky  Region 5  963  Camp Cook, LA  Ft. Polk, LA Installation Population and State of Louisiana          Region 6  635  Fort Sill, OK  Fort Sill Installation Population, Arkansas, Oklahoma  Region 7  690  Fort Hood, TX  Fort Hood Installation Population, State of Texas (Less Fort Bliss In-stallation Population)  Region 8  400  Fort Bliss, TX  Fort Bliss/White Sands Installation Population  Table D  1 Noncommissioned Officer Academy regions  Continued  Region 9  675  Fort Lewis, WA  Oregon, Washington, California (Less Fort Irwin Installation Popu-lation) and Idaho  Region 10  652  Fort Leonard Wood, MO  Fort Leonard Wood Installation Population & State of Missouri, and Kansas (less Fort Riley)  Region 11  687 & 1019 (ARNG)  Fort Drum, NY  Fort Drum Installation Population, Maine, New Hampshire, New York, and Vermont  Region 12  955  Camp Ashland, NE  Fort Riley Installation Population, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota  Region 13  956  Camp Williams, UT  Utah and Nevada  Region 14  1012  Fort Indiantown Gap, PA  Walter Reed Army Medical Cen-ter, Fort Belvoir, Military District Washington, Maryland, Pennsyl-vania, Virginia, and West Virginia  Region 15  E400  Fort McCoy, WI  Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa  Region 16  A400  Fort Dix, NJ  New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Delaware, and Massa-chusetts  Region 17  998  Camp Shelby, MS  Mississippi, Alabama, and Tennessee (less Fort Camp-bell)  Region 18  1014  Camp McCrady Training Site, Eastover SC  Fort Jackson, SC Installation Population, South Carolina, and Georgia (less Fort Benning, GA; and Fort Stewart, GA)  Region 19  979  Fort Carson, CO  Fort Carson, CO Installation Population, Colorado, Wyo-ming, and Montana  Region 20  983  Camp Blanding, FL  Florida and HQ SOC South, Homestead AFB, FL  Region 21  1009  Newton Falls, OH  Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, and In-diana  Table D  1 Noncommissioned Officer Academy regions  Continued  Region 22  1005  Santa Fe, NM  New Mexico (less White Sands), Arizona   Region 23  G400  Camp Parks, CA  Fort Irwin, CA Installation Popula-tion  Region 30  696 & 975 (ARNG)  Fort Richardson, AK  Alaska  Region 31  692 & 985 (ARNG)    Hawaii  Guam, Hawaii, Johnston Is-land, and American Somoa  Region 32  693  Korea  Korea and Japan  Region 33  695  Europe  Europe (including United Kingdom, Italy, Turkey, Africa, and Southwest Asia)  Region 34  1026  Fort Allen, PR  Puerto Rico and Virgin Island  D  3.  Army command, Army service component command, and direct reporting unit coordination CONUS ACOMs, ASCCs, or DRUs will send personnel to the NCOA serving the region nearest to the Soldiers duty station(s). D  4.  Noncommissioned officer academy quota management a.  Management of NCOA course quotas is necessary to ensure that all eligible Soldiers in a particular NCOA region have an equal opportunity to attend BLC. Quota management also ensures that sufficient NCOs are trained to support command needs and sustain the promotion flow. b.  With the advice of NCOAs, commands will develop plans to manage BLC course quotas. Quota management plans will be established under the annual training requirement for each NCOES course taught at the respective NCOA. c.  Quota management plans will be designed to equitably distribute quotas to all commands in the NCOA region. d.  Addresses of RA regional NCOA quota managers are listed in table D  2.  Table D  2 Addresses of regional quota managers  Continued  Region   Address   1   Commander, XVIII Airborne Corps & Fort Bragg (AFZA  DPT  TS), Fort Bragg, NC 28307  5000   2   Commander, U.S. Army Infantry Center and Fort Benning (ZB  DPT  T), Fort Benning, GA 31905  5273   3   Commander, 3rd Infantry Division and Fort Stewart (AFZP  PTT  S), Fort Stewart, GA 31314  5000   4   Commandant, U.S. Army 101st Airborne Division NCO Academy (AFZB  DPT  NC), Fort Campbell, KY 42223  5000   5   Commander, Joint Readiness Training Center and Fort Polk (AFZX  GT  TTS), Fort Polk, LA 71459  5000   6   Commander, U.S. Army Field Artillery Center and Fort Sill (ZR  TTI), Fort Sill, OK 73503  5600   7   Commandant, U.S. Army III Corps NCO Academy (AFZF  NCOA), Fort Hood, TX 76544  5064   8   Commandant, U.S. Army NCO Academy (TZC  DPT  S), Fort Bliss, TX 79916  6501   9   Commandant, U.S. Army I Corps NCO Academy, (AFZH  NCOA), Fort Lewis, WA 98433  9534   30   Commander, Fort Richardson (AFVR  PTM), Fort Richardson, AK 99505  5800   31   Commander, U.S. Army Garrison, Hawaii (IMPA  HI  PLT) Schofield Barracks, HI 96857  5000   32   Commander, Eighth Army (EACJ  TDD), Seoul, Korea APO AP 96205  0009   33   Commander, 7th Army CC (AETTV  DPT  TD), Vilseck, Germany, APO AE 09112   10   Commander, U.S. Army Engineer Center and Fort Leonard Wood (ZT  FTM  TZ), Fort Leonard Wood, MO 65473  5000   11   Commandant, U.S. Army NCO Academy, Fort Drum, NY 65473  5245     Appendix E Training Records E  1.  Military training records a.  Training Records for all military personnel and units will be maintained in DTMS as part of ATMS and records for Army Civilians will be maintained in DCPDS unless otherwise directed by DCS, G  3/5/7. Two records exist: the individ-ual training record (ITR) and the unit training record (UTR). Every military unit commander will maintain ITRs to assist in Soldier readiness and facilitate the electronic transfer of Soldier training records during reassignment. b.  All Training records will be inspected by a units immediate higher headquarters, to ensure compliance in standards of training and readiness as part of a command inspection program or separately. c.  Information from ITR/UTR will be considered during revisions to the unit training plan and the UTR will provide selected information to support training readiness reporting requirements. E  2.  Individual training record a.  The Soldiers ITR will be maintained in DTMS. The ITR will contain the date and score (if applicable) for completion of common mandatory training requirements in accordance with appendix G of this regulation; and the completion of other requirements as approved and directed by the DCS, G  3/5/7 and published in appropriate supplemental publications.  b.  The ITR will contain the completion information from diplomas, certificates of training (DA Form 87) including ALMS course completions, weapons qualification scorecards, physical fitness test scorecards (DA Form 705), height/weight and body composition worksheet (DA Form 5500 and DA Form 5501), and driver/operator training quali-fications. There is no requirement to scan and upload supporting documents into DTMS in order to validate the command-ers input into the Soldiers ITR; however, APFT, weapons qualification score cards, and Driver testing will be retained in files. Commanders may maintain other individual or leader training records to build and sustain unit readiness. c.  The ITR is part of the military and civilian personnel records in accordance with AR 600  8  104 and AR 690  400 and will be transferred to the gaining unit upon reassignment. DTMS training records will be automatically transferred to the gaining unit upon reassignment. d.  Commanders will ensure ITRs are complete, current and support development and execution of unit training plans in order to minimize individual training impacts during collective training periods and maximize the completion of indi-vidual training requirements during support cycles. e.  All institutional training requirements, schedules, quota assignment, and student management (reservations, enroll-ment, and completion entries) will be documented in ATRRS. f.  The completion of IMT (basic, AIT, OSUT, WOBC, and BOLC), PME, ASI, and SI for TRADOC and non-TRADOC schools will be recorded in DTMS. g.  DTMS will accept both individual and collective training data either via manual entries and/or electronic data transfer from other information systems. h.  Additional guidance is as follows: (1)  Individual Flight Training Records and Aircrew training records will be maintained per AR 95  1. (2)  Army Drivers Training and Equipment Operators training records will be maintained in accordance with AR 600  55, TB 600  1, and TB 600  2; and will be annotated in the ITR. i.  Records exempt from inspection include: (1)  Body Composition Program records. (2)  DA Form 3479 (Training and Proficiency Record Air Traffic Controller). j.  All ITRs will be maintained in accordance with AR 25  22. k.  Course completions will be recorded in military and civilian personnel records in accordance with AR 600  8  104 and AR 690  400. E  3.  Unit training recordreport a.  The UTR is mandatory. Selected portions will be recorded in DTMS, while other components of the UTR may be maintained elsewhere. The UTR is a compilation of all unit collective and individual task proficiency assessments com-pleted by the unit in accordance with unit training plans (see FM 7  0). The UTR is not a duplication of the ITR, however, selected items from the Soldier ITRs will be aggregated at the UTR level. Commanders may maintain other individual or leader training records (such as, ASI/SI, certifications, licenses) to build and sustain unit readiness. The commander can determine which assessments he/she want aggregated on the UTR; however, some specific assessments are required. b.  The following specific assessments will be recorded in the UTR portion of DTMS to provide information necessary to determine training readiness for the unit via the UTR-Report. (1)  MET proficiency assessments. MET assessment results for each MET will be recorded in DTMS and auto-populated to the UTR; if the MET assessment is completed externally to DTMS the MET proficiency assessment must be recorded manually on the UTR. (2)  ICSPQ proficiency. Individual, crew-served and platform qualifications will be aggregated and recorded on the UTR. (3)  Collective live fire task proficiency. c.  Components of the UTR not required to be maintained within the UTR in DTMS but must be available for OIP inspection include: (1)  Unit Training Plans (with calendars and schedules). In addition to maintaining the current training year, units will retain unit training plans (with calendars and schedules). (2)  AAR and EXEVAL records. E  4.  Managing training records in institutional schools a.  The CG, TRADOC ensures that training records required to be maintained on each student are completed and rec-orded in DTMS to allow for visibility by the gaining unit. b.  The Commandant, U.S. Army Academy of Health Sciences, maintains appropriate training records on those Soldiers who undergo AIT at the Academy of Health Sciences. c.  All institutional training requirements, schedules, quota assignment, and student management (reservations, enroll-ment, and completion entries) will be documented in ATRRS. d.  Completion of all institutional training courses (IMT, PME, functional course) will be entered into DTMS by the institution conducting the training. E  5.  Transferring individual training record a.  The ITR is part of the military and civilian personnel records in accordance with AR 600  8  104 and AR 690  400, and will be maintained in DTMS and DCPDS respectively, to facilitate digital transfer of ITR to the gaining unit upon reassignment. b.  DTMS training records will be automatically transferred to the gaining unit upon reassignment. E  6.  Guide to Army Civilian personnel recordkeeping a.  The official record of completed training for Army Civilians is the DCPDS. Managers, activity training coordinators, and Civilian Personnel Advisory Center Human Resource Development advisors share responsibility to ensure proper and timely documentation of all completed training. b.  The employees supervisor will ensure that training in excess of 8 hours, or training of any length that is required by law or regulation, is documented. Upon completion of training and course evaluation by the employee and supervisor, the supervisor will ensure the submission of course information into the official Army Civilian database. It is the responsibility of the supervisor to verify documentation entry and accuracy. c.  Documentation for individual training completions will include: (1)  Title and objectives of the training. (2)  Length of training in hours. (3)  Starting and concluding dates of the training. (4)  The period of time, if any, during which the employee is obligated to remain in Government service as documented in a continued service agreement in accordance with 5 USC 4108. (5)  Training expenses paid by the Government in accordance with 5 USC 4109. d.  Organizations will maintain civilian ITR case files in accordance with the Army Records Information Management System and document the following: (1)  Training for Placement. (2)  Academic Degree Program Paid by the Government. (3)  Continued Service Agreements (5 USC 4108). (4)  Recovery and Waiver of Training Expenses (5 USC 4109). (5)  Acceptance of contributions, awards and other payments incident to training in non-Government facilities. E  7.  DA Form 87 a.  The DA Form 87 is used to document the completion of a class or POI not covered by a DA Form 1059, Academic Evaluation Report, Diploma, or permanent orders. b.  The DA Form 87, is authorized for use on information systems (ATRRS, ATCTS, ALMS, or ATMS) intended to document and reflect the completion of training, or downloaded from the APD website and filled out locally as an output for completed training. Pre-populated fields will not be manipulated by users of the form. c.  DA Form 87, will not be used for collective training or in lieu of T&EOs.   Appendix F Mandatory Training and Other Requirements Section I Headquarters, Department of the Army Mandatory Training F  1.  Headquarters, Department of the Army Common (Individual) Mandatory Training Program and Oversight a.  HQDA common (individual) mandatory training, topics (CMT), and requirements are applicable to all Department of the Army (Soldiers, Army Civilians, Contractors) (Regular Army, Reserve, Guard) (MTOE or TDA) (units and institu-tions) unless other stated. b.  The purpose of common (individual) mandatory training/education/topics is to minimize and limit the number of topics to those directed and supported by Army policy or higher authority (DODI, DODD, and law) or directed by the DCS, G  3/5/7 and essential to individual or unit readiness. c.  The DCS, G  3/5/7 retains authority to realign topics in tables  F  1 and F  2 to other HQDA Training Regulations or Pamphlets under the purview of the DCS, G  3/5/7 in order to ensure flexibility for commanders and maintain emphasis on matters essential to individual or unit readiness for all Soldiers, Army Civilians, and contractors.  d.  The DCS, G  3/5/7 determines which topics will be conducted as discrete training requirements versus as a com-manders responsibility, thus extending flexibility to unit commanders to determine when and how the topic is addressed based on the needs of the unit and Soldiers. e.  All training and resource products necessary or available to support training and/or education or to enable the exe-cution of commanders responsibilities listed on tables  F  1 and F  2 will be accessible via ATMS.  f.  DCS G  3/5/7, in coordination with HQDA functional proponents, will lead, review, validate and reapprove all train-ing and education topics identified in tables  F  1 and F  2 on a biennial basis or as determined by the DCS, G  3/5/7. No duplication of content between unit annual CMT and IMT/PME content; or duplication of content between two different HQDA proponents as a result of not coordinating content to eliminate duplication. g.  ACOM, ASCC, and DRU commanders may establish additional command-directed training requirements for Sol-diers, Civilians, and contractors within their organizations. h.  HQDA agencies responsible for topics listed in tables  F  1 and F  2 or as emerging topics/requirements will comply with TRADOC Training Development policy and procedures. All training products and resources in support of HQDA CMT for Soldiers, units, and institutions will be maintained by TRADOC and accessible through ATN.  F  2.  Establishing, modifying and maintaining Headquarters, Department of the Army common mandatory training a.  Training and education requirements resulting from new regulations or other policy directives impacting Soldiers must be approved by the DCS, G  3/5/7 prior to inclusion as HQDA CMT. Emerging and additional training requirements should be incorporated into Soldiers manuals, drills, collective tasks or existing CMT products before competing them for consideration as a HQDA mandatory training subject. b.  Requests for inclusion or deletion as a HQDA mandatory training requirement must be forwarded to DCS, G  3/5/7 (DAMO  TR), Pentagon, Washington DC 20310  0450. Requests will include: an explanation of the training and/or edu-cation requirement, draft training and/or education and/or learning objectives, draft training and/or education and/or learn-ing products or resources, target audience(s) and environments(unit and/or institution), implementing instructions, required resources, and justification for making the task a HQDA mandatory training / education requirement or a reason to remove HQDA mandatory training when no longer required. The same information is required to modify a current product/re-source. c.  For HQDA mandatory training requirements directed to the institutional training environment, TRADOC (ICW ap-plicable non-TRADOC institutions if applicable) determines implementing methods for incorporating HQDA mandatory training into common core training for institutional courses, unless otherwise specified by regulation. d.  Commanders are responsible for the content of any training materiel not provided by HQDA, or ACOM/ASCC/DRU. F  3.  Common training and/or topics for all personnel (Soldiers, Army Civilians, and contractors) in units and institutional environments a.  Units (including organizations and activities).  Requirements listed in table F  1 will be completed as prescribed. Although the requirements are individual tasks, they may be completed by the individual or in a group setting. Completed training will be recorded in the ITR for military and Army Civilians (see table F  1). Personnel assigned to organizations who are not assigned specific pieces of equipment, (specifically for CBRN training, AWT and weapons qualification), may be exempted by the first O  5 in the chain of command, except when required as a pre-deployment training require-ment. Other training and/or education topics not contained in appendix F but necessary to support a duty position (non-MOS) or be required of only selected Soldiers will be located in supplemental publications to AR 350  1 and ATN.  b.  Institutions.  Mandatory training subjects taught to students in training institutions are shown in table F  1. Completed training will be recorded in the ITR. The CG, TRADOC determines subject instruction at specific courses within each training system (IMT, OES, NCOES, SCP, CES). Training subjects in a given training system represent the presence of that subject in at least one course in that training system, not necessarily in all courses within that training system. Training resources and information for training subjects can be found at ATN.  Table F  1 Headquarters, Department of the Army mandatory training requirements for all personnel (Soldiers Army Civilians and contractors) in units (including organizations, activities, agencies) and institutional environments  Continued  Topic   Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Unit / Or-ganiza-tional / Ac-tivity  Note: Delivery method   Institutional Training  Operations Security (OPSEC)  AR 530  1   DCS, G  3/5/7  RA  (A) RC  (A) CIV  (I/A) CTR  (A)  SME (OPSEC Of-ficer) or online (ALMS)  IET BOLC NCOES OES SCP CES  Anti-terrorism (AT) Training  AR 525  13  PMG  RA  (A) RC  (A) CIV  (I/A) CTR  (A)  SME (ATO) or online (ALMS)  IET BOLC NCOES OES SCP  Threat Awareness & Re-porting Program (TARP)  AR 381  12  DCS, G  2  RA  (A) RC  (A) CIV  (A) CTR  (A)  SME (CI (RA), TARP (RC)) or online (ALMS) as exception  IET BOLC  Information Security (In-foSec)  AR 380  5 / AR 380  67  DCS, G  2  RA  (A) RC  (A) CIV  (I/A) CTR  (A)  SME (Sec Off) or online (ALMS)    Information Assurance (IA)  AR 25  1 / AR 25  2  CIO/G  6  RA  (A) RC  (A) CIV  (A) CTR  (A)  Online only (ALMS)  ONLY IF NOT ALREADY CURRENT  Sexual Harassment, As-sault, Response, Prevention (SHARP)  AR 600  20  DCS, G  1  RA  (I/A/P) RC  (A / P) CIV  (I/A) CTR  (OPT)  SME (SARC) + online module (ALMS)  IET BOLC NCOES OES SCP  Equal opportunity (EO) (in-cludes treatment of per-sons)  AR 600  20  ASA M&RA (DL)  RA  (A) RC  (B)   SME (EO)  IET BOLC NCOES OES SCP  Equal Employment Oppor-tunity (EEO) (Anti-harass-ment, and No fear Training)  AR 690  12, The Notifica-tion and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Re-taliation Act  ASA M&RA (DL)  CIV  (I / A)  In accordance with AR 690  12, chap-ter 8    Personal Readiness (previ-ously titled substance abuse and suicide prevention)  AR 600  63, AR 600  85, and AR 350  53  DCS, G  1  RA  (A / P) RC  (A / P) CIV  (I/A) CTR  (OPT)  SME (MRT and/or BLC Graduate  IET BOLC NCOES OES SCP  Resilience  AR 350  53  DCS, G  1  RA  (A / P RC  (B/ P) CIV  (Auth, not rqd) CTR  (OPT)   SME (MRT)  IET BOLC NCOES OES SCP  Table F  1 Headquarters, Department of the Army mandatory training requirements for all personnel (Soldiers Army Civilians and contractors) in units (including organizations, activities, agencies) and institutional environments  Continued  Table F  1 Headquarters, Department of the Army mandatory training requirements for all personnel (Soldiers Army Civilians and contractors) in units (including organizations, activities, agencies) and institutional environments  Continued  Topic   Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Unit / Or-ganiza-tional / Ac-tivity  Note: Delivery method   Institutional Training  Physical Readiness Training Program (includes APFT; Cdr may include com-batives)  AR 350  1  DCS, G  3/5/7  RA  (S) RC  (A)     IET BOLC NCOES OES   Individual Weapons Qualifi-cation  AR 350  1 / DA Pam 350  38  DCS, G  3/5/7  RA  (S) RC  (A)     IET BOLC  Warrior Task & Battle Drills  AR 350  1  DCS, G  3/5/7  RA  (A) RC  (B)     IET BOLC  Driver's Licensing, Testing, Review  AR 600  55  DCS, G  3/5/7  RA  (C) RC  (C)     IET  Army Traffic Safety Training Program  AR 385  10  ACSIM   RA  (C) RC  (C)     BOLC  Risk Management  AR 385  10 & ATP 5  19  Army Safety Office  RA  (C) RC  (C) CIV  (C)     IET BOLC NCOES OES SCP CES  Preventive Maintenance Checks and Service  AR 750  1  DCS, G  4      IET BOLC NCOES  Leadership Doctrine  AR 600  100 / FM 6  22  DCS, G  1  RA  (C) RC  (C)     BOLC NCOES OES SCP CES  Army Values Training  AR 600  20  DCS, G  1  RA  (C) RC  (C)     IET BOLC NCOES OES SCP CES  Military Justice  AR 10  27  TJAG    SJA  IET BOLC NCOES OES SCP CES  Code of Conduct  AR 525  28  DCS, G  3/5/7  RA  (C / P) RC  (C / P)   SJA  IET BOLC    Law of War (MTOE units)  DODD 2311.01E  TJAG  RA  (C / P) RC  (C / P)   SJA  IET BOLC NCOES OES  Personnel Recovery  AR 525  28  DCS, G  3/5/7  RA  (C) RC  (C)     BOLC NCOES OES  Cultural Awareness training  AR 350  1  DCS, G  3/5/7  RA  (P) RC  (P)     BOLC NCOES  Health Promotion (preven-tive medicine)  AR 40  5, DA Pam 40  11  TSG  RA  (C / P) RC  (C / P)   TSG  IET BOLC  Topic   Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Unit / Or-ganiza-tional / Ac-tivity  Note: Delivery method   Institutional Training  Occupational and Environmental health (Combat Stress & mild traumatic brain injury  & hearing conservation)  AR 40  5  TSG  RA  (C) RC  (C)    BOLC  Combatting Trafficking in Persons  DODD 2200  01  ASA M&RA (DL)  RA  (C / P) RC  (C / P) CIV  (C) CTR  (C)    IET BOLC NCOES OES CES  Electronic warfare (EW)/Cyber Electromag-netic training  AR 350  1  DCS, G  3/5/7  RA  (C / P) RC  (C / P)     BOLC NCOES OES SCP  Enlisted PME Policy  CJCSI 1805.01A  DCS, G  1      NCOES  Officer PME Policy  CJCSI 1800  01  DCS, G  1      BOLC OES  Public affairs program / Me-dia Awareness  AR 360  1  CPA  RA  (C / P) RC  (C / P)     BOLC NCOES OES SCP  Constitution Day Awareness    ASA M&RA  CIV  (C)                   Legend A: Annual frequency requirement B: Biennial frequency requirement. Trained once per two years. C: Commanders Responsibility (Also see AR 600  20).  For the topics characterized as C in Table F  1, it is the unit commanders responsibility to conduct education/training needed by all Soldiers necessary to maintain the policy / program standards specified in the authority reference for the topic.  For these topics, the commander determines the frequency, method of delivery, duration, tracking, and if information/education is sufficient, or training is required in the context of being common to all Soldiers in the unit. Certification / education / training for subject matter experts (SME) is still required as specified in the authority reference. I: In processing. Required within 30 days whenever Soldiers in-process to a new installation or Civilians in-process to the workforce. O: Ongoing. Continuous training, not a single event. P: Pre-deployment frequency requirement. R: Redeployment. Addressed upon redeployment from an operational mission. S: Semiannual frequency requirement. Trained twice per year. OPT: Optional. IMT: Initial Military Training (Basic Combat Training, AIT, OSUT, BOLC A/B, WOBC). OES (PME): Officer Education System (officer and warrant officer Professional Military Education) (not including BOLC A or B, or WOBC). NCOES: Non-commissioned Officer Education System. SCP: School of Command Preparation (PCC branch-immaterial and branch-specific phases). CES: Civilian Education System. Note: Published predeployment training may guidance supersedes training requirement frequency contained herein   Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  Information As-surance Related Training       Access to DOD/Army Networks. (CIO/G  6). To establish an account or have access to Army/DOD networks, an individual is required to complete annual information as-surance training per AR 25  1 and AR 25  2.  DOD and Army CIO/G  6 establish minimum standards, provide the on-line training, and maintain the records of training completed.    Personnel / Infor-mation Security Program (Super-visors)  AR 380  5 / AR 380  67  G  2   In addition to the Security Program initial and refresher training requirements identi-fied in tables F  1 common to all Soldiers and Civilians, additional training is required for individuals who supervise Soldiers and Civilians with a security clearance. All en-listed Soldiers (corporal and above), officers and Civilians who manage personnel with clearances/access to classified information will, on an annual basis, receive ap-propriate refresher training on reporting responsibilities as prescribed by DCS, G  2.  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  Table F  2 Other requirements for selected personnel (units and institutions)  Continued  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  Unit, activity, and/or installation level S2/Security Managers will monitor the comple-tion this training.   Personnel Recov-ery (PR) / Code of Conduct / SERE Training  AR 252  28  G  3/5/7   a. Concepts.   (1) PR is fundamental to the Warrior Ethos. I will always place the mission first; I will never accept defeat; I will never quit; I will never leave a fallen comrade. Command-ers will prepare their personnel for isolation, for executing PR missions, and to re-cover those who become isolated. AR 525  28, Personnel Recovery, outlines the Armys full PR requirements  (2) PR is the sum of military, diplomatic, and civil efforts to prepare for and execute the recovery and reintegration of isolated personnel.  (3) PR applies to U.S. military, DOD Civilians and contractor personnel (and others designated by the President or Secretary of Defense) who are separated from their unit (as an individual or a group) while participating in a U.S. sponsored military ac-tivity or mission and are, or may be, in a situation where they must survive, evade, resist, or escape.  (4) The Code of Conduct was established by Executive Order (EO) 10631 (amended by EO 12633 and EO 11382) to provide standards of behavior for members of the Armed Forces in combat and captivity. It consists of six articles. EO 10631 requires that all members of the Armed Forces be provided with specific training and instruc-tion designed to better equip them to counter and withstand all enemy efforts against them, and shall be fully instructed as to the behavior and obligations expected of them during combat or captivity. All U.S. Army SERE training is designed to support the Code of Conduct by giving individuals the skills they need to survive isolating events and return with honor.  (5) PR training, which includes PR operations training, PR command and staff train-ing, Code of Conduct training and SERE training, are designed to:  (a) Increase the likelihood of recovery prior to detention or capture through effective planning and preparation by individuals, units, and commanders and their staff.  (b) Prepare individuals to survive by meeting their basic needs and evade enemy de-tection and capture while returning to friendly control.  (c) Prepare individuals on the behavior and obligations expected of them during combat and captivity and on how to counter and withstand enemy efforts against them.  (d) Enable individuals, units, commanders and staffs to execute the five PR tasks (report, locate, support, recover, and reintegrate) in order to return isolated person-nel to friendly control.  (e) Educate commanders and their staffs on the integration of PR into the Army Op-erations Process.  (f) Provide Joint PR staff training and education for those persons assigned to Joint PR billets.  (6) COCOMs often require specific high risk of isolation and moderate risk of isola-tion courses for deploying personnel. Only qualified instructors, approved by the ap-propriate COCOM, are allowed to teach high risk of isolation and moderate risk of isolation classes.  (7) Commanders will use the DTMS ITR to record PR operations training, PR com-mand and staff training, Code of Conduct training and SERE training that includes the name of course and date completed.  (8) All PR training tools are available at the Army Personnel Recovery Proponent Of-fice website at http://usacac.army.mil/organizations/mccoe.  (9) Army interactive media instruction PR courses are available as downloads from Army Training Network and the Army Personnel Recovery Proponent Office web-sites, as web-based modules on the Army Learning Management System, as DVD/CD products from Defense Imagery, and as platform instruction using Army Personnel Recovery Proponent Office developed lesson plans and slides.   b. Personnel Recovery Operations Training.   (1) The following individuals shall complete annual training on PR concepts and re-sponsibilities, and the Code of Conduct:  (a) All Soldiers.  (b) Army Civilians who supervise Soldiers or who are involved in policy development related to deployments, training, or casualties.   TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  (c) Army contractors who as part of their contract, support the development of policy related to deployments, training, or casualties, and only if required in order to fulfill the terms of their contract and approved by the appropriate contracting Officer.  (2) Personnel Recovery and Code of Conduct training is changed from annual recur-ring training requirement to a commanders responsibility to determine when, where, and how Soldiers and units will remain informed; commanders may use Army PR 101: Introduction to Personnel Recovery Concepts to fulfill this training requirement.   c. Code of Conduct Training.   (1) Code of Conduct training is changed from annual recurring training requirement to a commanders responsibility to determine when, where, and how Soldiers and units will remain informed; minimum information is also included in Army PR 101 course. Additionally, all Soldiers will receive Code of Conduct training during initial military training. Training includes instruction on the meaning of the six articles of the Code of Conduct and the behavior and obligations expected of Soldiers during com-bat and captivity.  (2) Code of Conduct training for PR is not to be confused with Law of War training required for the treatment of enemy combatants.   d. Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape Training.   (1) SERE training is for Soldiers, Army Civilians, and Army Contractors whose jobs, specialties, missions, or assignments place them at risk of isolation and exploitation. It incorporates individual preparation and planning for isolation, survival, evasion, re-sistance and escape tactics, techniques, and procedures, and responsibilities during recovery and post-isolation reintegration. SERE training enables isolated personnel to live up to the Code of Conduct in order to return with honor.  (2) All Army SERE training (levels A, B, and C) must be validated by the Army Per-sonnel Recovery Proponent Office.  (3) There are three levels of SERE training. Commanders shall utilize the DTMS In-dividual Training Record to indicate the level of SERE training completed by each person in their unit and the date completed:  (a) SERE level A. This is the basic level of SERE training. All Soldiers, Army Civil-ians and Army Contractors will receive SERE Level A training prior to travel outside the U.S. DODI 1300.21 provides guidance on the subject matter taught at this level. Completion of IMI products Army SERE 102 (Survival and Evasion Fundamentals) and SERE 103 (Resistance and Escape Fundamental)  fulfills the requirement for SERE level A. Soldiers who have successfully completed and can present an army SERE level B or C course certificate of completion are qualified for a lifetime to meet the SERE level A requirements.  To ensure standardization, no other courses shall be utilized to meet SERE level A training requirements for Army personnel. SERE level A training can be completed individually or through platform instruction con-ducted for large groups. Personnel providing SERE level A instruction to large groups must utilize SERE level A lesson plans and slides validated by the Army Per-sonnel Recovery Proponent Office. These lesson plans and slides can be obtained through the Army Personnel Recovery Proponent Office. Personnel serving as in-structors for large group SERE level A instruction must be SERE level C graduates, and must have completed SERE 102 and SERE 103 interactive media instruction products within the last year of the date of instruction. SERE level A is conducted at the Unclassified//For Official Use Only level. All requests by foreign partners for SERE level-A products or training must be referred to the CGl, Combined Arms Cen-ter and Army Personnel Recovery Proponent Office.  (b) SERE level B. Level B training is tailored for selected capability areas and in-cludes tasks as determined by the Army Personnel Recovery Proponent.  (c) SERE level C. Level C training is required for Soldiers, Army Civilians, and Army contractors whose military jobs, specialties, or assignments entail a significant or high risk of isolation, capture and exploitation. These three-week courses are con-ducted at approved military schools (the U.S. Army SERE School, Fort Rucker, and the U.S. Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center & School, Fort Bragg) and are documented in ATRRS. SERE Level C training is available to those individuals whose deployment duties will likely require them to operate outside of secure operat-ing bases with limited security. Commanders will evaluate their assigned personnel and identify those who should attend SERE level C training based on an assessment of the individuals risk of isolation, capture, and/or exploitation. As a minimum, the  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  following categories of personnel will have the opportunity to receive formal level C SERE training at least once in their careers:  1. Specially designated ARSOF personnel are eligible to attend level C SERE Course at U.S. Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center & School.  2. All Officers who have branched Aviation are required to graduate from the U.S. Army level C SERE School at Fort Rucker prior to starting their Advanced Aircraft Track, unless they have previously attended another level C SERE School. 3. The following categories of personnel are highly encouraged to attend the U.S. Army SERE School at Fort Rucker: Personnel who have the following MOS/ASI/SQI: enlisted aircrew members (includes medical evacuation aircrew members); snipers; pathfinders; military attaches; or personnel assigned to the following type units or duty positions: reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition battalions; long range reconnaissance and surveillance units; Soldiers whose deployment duties will likely require them to operate with little security outside of secure operating bases (this may include, but is not limited to, police transition teams, military transition teams, border transition teams, Security Force Assistance advisory Teams and se-lected maneuver support and maneuver sustainment personnel); counterintelligence and HUMINT personnel whose deployment duties will likely require them to engage in operational collection outside of secure operating bases (for example, serving on a tactical HUMINT team or HUMINT collection team); counterintelligence or HUMINT personnel assigned to DCS,G  2 or DCS,G  2 duty position; Criminal Investigation Division agents and military police whose deployment duties will likely require them to engage in Criminal Intelligence, investigations or police intelligence operations outside of secure operating bases. Soldiers not included in the above listed catego-ries may attend U.S. Army level C SERE School at Fort Rucker if a battalion com-mander or higher level commander has determined level C SERE training is re-quired. This determination should be based on duty assignment, sensitive knowledge, and/or risk of isolation, capture, or exploitation. Army personnel may at-tend SERE level C training at other DOD approved service SERE schools.  4. Student selection prerequisites are listed in ATRRS. All students must possess a valid secret or higher security clearance and meet the Armys height/weight and APFT standards upon arrival to the course.  5. Training seat reservations for RA soldiers attending training TDY and return will be executed by the Soldiers respective ACOM. Training seat reservations for Sol-diers attending training in a TDY en route status will be executed by Commander, HRC.  (4) Joint Service Training Program (JSTP). The JSTP or SERE 245 is a closely coor-dinated, specialized course of instruction in which the services participate at the di-rection of the JCS. The training is conducted at courses located at Pope Army Air-field, NC; North Island, CA; and Fairchild AFB, WA. The JSTP is specifically aimed at increasing combat readiness. Training is provided to personnel who may be des-ignated as high risk of isolation based on billet assignment, MOS, or geographic op-erating location with the greatest possibilities of being engaged in, or directly sup-porting combat operations. Information concerning JSTP must be held to a strict need-to-know basis. Every precaution must be taken to ensure complete security for this course. Personnel attending SERE 245 receive classified training. Prospective students are given no description of the course of instruction other than the fact they are to receive classified training. JSTP students are prohibited from divulging any in-formation concerning their participation in the JSTP to any individual not cleared for access to the course, (regardless of rank or position.)  (a) All students nominated for JSTP must: be a U.S. citizen; possess a Secret Clear-ance or higher; be assigned to an MOS, branch or position that places that individual in a high threat of capture operation or theater; completed Army courses PR 101, SERE 102, and SERE 103; be of excellent character and of such good habits that there is no doubt of the individuals discretion or good judgment in handling classified information; mature and emotionally stable with demonstrated leadership ability; have no previous conviction or actions pending by court martial; officers must be on active duty, between the grades of W2  W5/O2  O5 and must be capable of serving an additional two years of active duty service upon completion of the training; and enlisted personnel must be on active duty, between the grade of E  5 and E  8, and serving on at least their second enlistment.  (b) Slots for this course are extremely limited so units will coordinate directly with HQDA G  3/5/7, Personnel Recovery Office, in order to nominate personnel for at-tendance. A certain percentage of Aviation Officers are required to take this course  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  and HRC will coordinate attendance to JSTP in conjunction with U.S. Army Aviation Center of Excellence in order to manage these officers as part of their training pipe-line.   e. Command and Staff Personnel Recovery Training.   (1) This training prepares commanders and staff to effectively plan, prepare, exe-cute, and assess PR missions by integrating PR into the Army Operations Process. Army PR 202: Commander and Staff Personnel Recovery Roles and Responsibili-ties , is an interactive media instruction product that prepares commanders and staffs in their roles and responsibilities should a PR event occur. Key topics covered include Army PR doctrine, organization, and systems; information and mission man-agement; intelligence support; and post-isolation reintegration.  (2) Army PR baseline training is required for PR Staff Officers assigned to official PR coded positions in Joint Personnel Recovery Centers (JPRCs) and Personnel Re-covery Control Centers (PRCCs). All persons identified as such who are serving in PRCCs or JPRCs will complete Army PR202, Personnel Recovery Management Software training, and at least one of the following Joint PR courses located at the Personnel Recovery Education and Training Center at Fredericksburg, VA:  (a) Director or deputy director of a JPRC or PRCC- PR 301, Personnel Recovery Planning and Operations (as a minimum) and PR 303 (recommended). PR 301 is a 10-day resident course that prepares the Joint PR planner to support and advise the Joint Task Force Commander and Staff.  (b) Controller/watch officer in a JPRC or Controller in a PRCC - Army PR 202 and one of the following courses: Joint Personnel Recovery Agency (JPRA) PR 301, JPRA PR 300, Aviation TACOPs course.  (c) Intelligence specialist in a JPRC or PRCC- JPRA PR 309.  (d) SERE Coordinator in a JPRC or PRCC SERE level C and one of the following courses: JPRA PR 301, JPRA PR 300, Aviation TACOPs course, or Army PR 202.  (e) Brigade PR officer- Army PR 202 (required) and one of the following is desired: JPRA PR 301, JPRA PR 300, or Aviation TACOPs course.  (3) Commander and staff training should be completed as soon as possible after as-signment to one of the above specified positions, but no later than one year after as-signment or prior to deployment, whichever comes first.  (4) JPRA courses: PR 300, 220, 301 and 303 are conducted by the Personnel Re-covery Education and Training Center in Fredericksburg, VA, and are listed in ATRRS under school code 520. All requests for attendance will be approved by the ACOM and HQDA in ATRRS before TDY orders are cut. JPRA will decline attend-ance for all non- ATRRS requestors.  f. Personnel Recovery Field or Situation Training.   (1) This training prepares commanders, staffs, units and individual Soldiers to inte-grate all classroom or distributive training into collective training and execution so that actual demonstration of learned skills can be evaluated by the chain of com-mand to increase the likelihood of recovering personnel from the battlefield prior to detention or capture should they become isolated. PR events can be easily added to exercise scripts to evaluate a unit or staff reaction to a missing or isolated soldier. Evaluators should be well versed on unit standard operating procedures for such events as well as doctrinal responses for units, staffs and individuals in isolating events. Training should reinforce immediate actions by the parent unit to locate and positively identify the isolated individual, continuously report the status of the isolated individual, initiate actions to find and return the isolated individual to the parent unit and coordinate post- isolation reintegration with higher. Since this training supports the Warrior Ethos and provides confidence to our Soldiers, Army Civilians, and Army contractors that their units will take every action necessary to return their personnel to positive unit control, it is recommended that PR tasks be integrated into every field training and pre- deployment mission rehearsal exercise.  (2) PR Shared Collective Tasks can be found on the Training Development Capabil-ity database for use in unit training and exercises. There are five collective PR tasks:  (a) Task 71  8  6200. Prepare for PR (Battalion - ASCC)  (b) Task 71  8  6212. Establish PR Capability (Brigade - ASCC)  (c) Task 71  8  6220. Develop PR Guidance Brigade - Corps)  (d) Task 71  8  6230. Plan PR Operations (Battalion - Corps)  (e) Task 71  8  6236. Coordinate PR (Brigade - Corps)  (3) Any form of training that incorporates SERE academic role-playing laboratories or SERE training laboratories is prohibited outside the U.S. Army SERE School, Fort  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  under 26 years of age, and the online Accident Avoidance Training Course required for all drivers as part of the licensing process.   Risk manage-ment (RM) / Envi-ronment Consid-erations  AR 385  10 / DA Pam 385  30  Army Safety Office   AR 385  10 contains a variety of training requirements unique to specific responsibili-ties. Examples include Unit Radiation Safety Officer, Laser Safety Officer, Radio Fre-quency Officer, and others. Units who are assigned or possess applicable equipment must maintain a trained primary and alternate officer or NCO to support these and other responsibilities.  a. All Soldiers and Army civilians will complete the on-line RM Basic Course (https://safety.army.mil) within 60 days of their arrival at their first operational assign-ment or civilian employment. RM is the Armys principal risk reduction methodology (see AR 385  10). b. RM training will be integrated into all courses within PME and the CES. The RM training will be progressive and sequential and tied closely to the education level and individual responsibility of the target audience.  c. Commanders and leaders will use RM to make informed risk decisions. These de-cisions ensure that training is conducted realistically and in a manner that protects the Soldiers and Army Civilian being trained. From an operational perspective, risk decisions enable Soldiers, leaders, and units to survive and win over the full range of military operations.  d. Commanders, leaders, and Soldiers will use the RM Process as detailed by FM 5  19 to identify hazards and minimize risk of personnel injury, illness, or accident; and standards outlined in DA Pam 385  30. The RM Process will be documented during the planning and execution phases of training from mission conception through the AAR.  e. Commanders/leaders will use RM to address environmental concerns to ensure that training is realistic, yet does not cause unnecessary environmental damage or violate environmental legal restrictions. Leaders are also responsible for assessing the impact of environmental management procedures on the ability to train and re-porting such restrictions through Unit Status Reports.  f. Commanders must ensure that residual risk is accepted at the appropriate level of command.  g. Commanders/leaders will conduct a job hazard analysis on all Soldiers and Civil-ian employees to determine specific training and personal protective equipment re-quired per AR 385  10.   h. The Occupational Safety and Health Act, applied by Executive Order, DODI 6055.1, and AR 385  10, requires job related safety training for all individuals who are potentially exposed to workplace hazards. These statutes and regulations spec-ify job specific safety training for Soldiers and Army Civilians.  (1) Top management officials will be provided training to enable them to manage the occupational safety and health programs of their organizations.  (2) Supervisory employees will be trained on the organizations occupational safety and health program to provide and maintain safe and healthful working conditions for employees.  (3) All employees will receive appropriate safety and health training on the organiza-tions occupational safety and health program and their rights, and responsibilities. Employees will also receive appropriate safety and health training for specialized job safety and health appropriate to the work they perform.  (4) Military commanders and military and Civilian supervisors and staff will be trained to use RM tools and techniques to integrate RM into all operations.  (5) All leaders will be trained to use the RM process to identify and control hazards, lead by example, minimize the severity and frequency of accidents, plan and con-duct safe operations, motivate subordinates to practice safe behavior, apply environ-mental awareness to daily activities, and plan and conduct environmentally suitable actions and training.  (6) All Army personnel; commanders, managers, and individuals are responsible for safety, risk management, and accident prevention. All personnel will practice safe behavior, conduct safe operations, recognize and report unsafe acts and conditions, and take actions to prevent accidents.    Water Safety      Water Survival Training is a commanders tool for measuring the ability of Soldiers to safely perform their duties in and around water hazards and also to identify individu-als that lack the skill to swim or survive should they become involved in an incident  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  required to be graduates of the course. However, if the commander elects to author-ize an enlisted alternate, the Soldier must be a graduate of the CBRN Defense Course. Prerequisites for personnel attending the CBRN defense course are as fol-lows:  (1) Recommendation from unit commander.  (2) Significant retainability in unit.  f. The CBRN defense training must be fully integrated into unit exercises (maneuver, functional/multi-functional, mission command) for both offensive and defensive oper-ations. Realistic training requires that enemy doctrine and capabilities for the em-ployment of CBRN weapons be understood and used to enhance mission perfor-mance in a CBRN environment.   g. Defensive CBRN warfare operations will be fully integrated into exercise situa-tions. This integration will develop and test the capability of commanders, staffs, and units to perform their missions under extended CBRN conditions. A units CBRN pro-ficiency will be determined by having the unit accomplish its mission under CBRN conditions during external and internal evaluations to 0-chlorobenzyl denemalono-nitrite (CS) standards. (See FM 3  11.)   h. Units will conduct CBRN individual and crew-served weapons training using the Engagement Skills Trainer with a minimum of protective mask and chemical gloves. Units not equipped with Engagement Skills Trainers will conduct weapons firing in a minimum of protective mask and chemical gloves. Weapons qualification under mis-sion-oriented protective posture conditions will be conducted in accordance with DA Pam 350  38.   i. Protective mask confidence is accomplished by Soldiers entering a CS contami-nated environment. This may be accomplished in a field environment or in a unit op-erated CS chamber. Commanders are required at a minimum to conduct a mask confidence exercise annually and prior to deployment. CS capsules are classified as munitions and must be forecasted by the using unit.   j. Contamination avoidance, protection, and decontamination training will be con-ducted as described below.  (1) Monitoring for CBRN hazards is a units responsibility. Leaders direct monitoring efforts. The commander will ensure that the appropriate section, squad, or platoon has personnel trained to operate and maintain the assigned CBRN defense equip-ment.  (2) Planning and control of CBRN surveys and sampling missions will be done at battalion or higher.  (3) Individuals will be trained on basic decontamination tasks using individual and unit decontamination equipment. Leaders at all levels will ensure their units are profi-cient in operational and thorough decontamination procedures.    k. Personnel will be trained on the proper procedures for entry and exit of collective protection equipment.   l. Operation and maintenance of individual and unit CBRN equipment are the duties of both leaders and Soldiers. Operators of unit CBRN defense equipment will be trained to perform operator maintenance and serviceability criteria checks on the as-signed equipment.   m. Emergency essential Army Civilians will be trained in CBRN survival skills. Emer-gency essential contractor personnel and local nationals of foreign host countries will be trained in accordance with applicable contracts and host nation agreements.   n. Units will integrate, as appropriate, the use of smoke and flame to support mission related training.   o. Medical personnel require basic, advance and refresher CBRN training to recog-nize, respond and treat CBRN casualties.      TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  Rucker, and the U.S. Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center & School, Fort Bragg without first having the course validated by the Army Personnel Recovery Pro-ponent Office (for non-ARSOF courses). This does not prevent commanders from conducting appropriate unit level training, but is required due to specific restrictions placed on the services by DODIs.  Combat Lifesaver Training (CLS)    DCS, G  3/5/7   a. Immediate, far-forward medical care is essential on a widely dispersed and fluid battlefield to prevent Soldiers from dying of wounds. Medical personnel may not be able to reach and apply lifesaving measures to all wounded Soldiers in a timely man-ner. The combat lifesaver (CLS) is a non-medical Soldier trained to provide lifesav-ing measures beyond the level of self-aid or buddy-aid. A properly trained CLS is ca-pable of stabilizing many types of casualties and can slow the deterioration of a wounded Soldiers condition until medical personnel arrive. Functioning as a combat lifesaver is a secondary mission undertaken when the tactical situation permits.  (1) Each squad, crew, or equivalent-sized deployable unit will have at least one member certified as a CLS. CLSs must be recertified every 12 months at unit level.  (2) Corps, divisions, and brigades will implement CLS training within their commands and designate a staff surgeon responsible for supervising their CLS programs. The primary instructor will be a medical NCO, 68W, current in CLS certification. Course information can be found on the Combat Lifesaver website  https://www.us.army.mil/suite/files/30315325.  (3) Units without qualifying medical personnel will request training instructor support from the next higher command surgeon or local medical treatment facility.  (4) Student and instructor materials for units and organizations are printed by the ATSC and shipped to the primary instructor. Unit training managers are not author-ized to augment correspondence course material or change the length of the course. Training and testing will be conducted in accordance with the tasks, conditions, and standards established by MEDCOM; or, in the case of USASOC personnel, estab-lished by the USASOC DCS, Surgeon.  b. Proof of CLS course completion will be placed in the Soldiers MPF in accordance with AR 600  8  104. Soldiers who successfully complete CLS in IMT will be issued certificates of training in accordance with this regulation and awarded course credit in ATRRS.  c. Unit personnel are not authorized to increase or delete items contained in the CLS aid bag. As an exception, USASOC surgeons are authorized to modify items con-tained in First Responder aid bags, in accordance with validated mission require-ments and with approval of the USASOC DCS, Surgeon. All Class VIII supplies and materials required for combat lifesaver training will be requisitioned through normal supply channels.  Field Sanitation  AR 40  5; DA Pam 40  11, 32b(1)(b).  TSG   All deploying units will train at least two field sanitation teams (primary and alternate) prior to deployment in accordance with FM 21  10 and FM 4  25.12.   Driver / Operator Standardization Program  AR 600  55  DCS, G  3/5/7   The Army Driver and Operator Standardization Program (Military Vehicle Driver Training & Licensing). AR 600  55 outlines the processes and requirements for driver/operator selection, training, testing and licensing; and the requirement for sus-tainment training. Licensing records will be maintained per appendix F. All units will establish and maintain driver and operator training programs. Training should antici-pate operational conditions (terrain, weather, rural/urban, unfamiliar equipment) where feasible.   Traffic Safety Training Program  AR 380  10  Army Safety Office   The Army Traffic Safety Training Program (Driver Education). (1) AR 385  10, para 11  7 (Driver Education) provides additional training to select groups of personnel. Educational requirements must be incorporated with military vehicle licensing and training processes. Training will be recorded in the Soldiers ITR.(1) AR 385  10, para 11  7 (Driver Education) provides additional training to se-lect groups of personnel. Educational requirements must be incorporated with mili-tary vehicle licensing and training processes. Training will be recorded in the Sol-diers ITR. (2) Specific requirements include: Introductory Training course taught during IET, Lo-cal hazard Training course, Intermediate Traffic Safety Training Course for soldiers  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  Law of War / De-tainee Operations Training       a. Soldiers and leaders require law of war training throughout their military careers commensurate with their duties and responsibilities.  (1) Level A training is conducted during IMT for all Soldiers.  (2) Level B training is conducted in MTOE units.  (3) Level C training is conducted in TASS.   b. Level A training provides the minimum knowledge required for all members of the Army. The following basic law of war rules (referred to as The Soldiers Rules, which stresses the importance of compliance with the law of war) will be taught dur-ing level A training:  (1) Soldiers fight only enemy combatants.  (2) Soldiers do not harm enemies who surrender. They disarm them and turn them over to their superior.  (3) Soldiers do not kill or torture any personnel in their custody.  (4) Soldiers collect and care for the wounded, whether friend or foe.  (5) Soldiers do not attack medical personnel, facilities, or equipment.  (6) Soldiers destroy no more than the mission requires.  (7) Soldiers treat civilians humanely.  (8) Soldiers do not steal. Soldiers respect private property and possessions.  (9) Soldiers should do their best to prevent violations of the law of war.  (10) Soldiers report all violations of the law of war to their superior.   c. Level B training is conducted in MTOE units for all unit personnel as follows:  (1) Training is conducted annually and conducted again prior to deployment when directed by a deployment order or appropriate authority.  (2) Commanders will establish specific training objectives; a qualified instructor will conduct training in a structured manner, and evaluate performance using established training conditions and performance standards. For the purposes of this training, a qualified trainer is defined as a JAGC officer or a Paralegal Noncommissioned officer certified to conduct such training by a JAGC officer.  (3) Training will reinforce the principles set forth in The Soldiers Rules. Addition-ally, training will emphasize the proper treatment of detainees, to include the 5 Ss and T (search, segregate, silence, speed to a safe area, safeguard, and tag). Sol-diers will be required to perform tasks to standard under realistic conditions. Training for all unit leaders will stress their responsibility to establish adequate supervision and control processes to ensure proper treatment and prevent abuse of detainees.  (4) Training will be designed around current missions and contingency plans (includ-ing anticipated geographical areas of deployment or rules of engagement). Detainee operations training will integrate military police and military intelligence personnel where doctrinally appropriate.  (5) Training on the law of war and detainee operations will be integrated into other appropriate unit training activities, field training exercises and unit external evalua-tions at home station, combat training centers and mobilization sites. Maximum com-bat realism will be applied to tactical exercises consistent with good safety practices.   d. Army schools will tailor law of war training to the tasks taught in those schools. Level C training will emphasize officer, WO, and NCO responsibilities for:  (1) Their performance of duties in accordance with the law of war obligations of the U.S.  (2) Law of war issues in command planning and execution of combat operations.  (3) Measures for the reporting of suspected or alleged war crimes committed by or against U.S. or allied personnel.   Resilience and Performance En-hancement Train-ing       a. The Army established Comprehensive Soldier and Family Fitness to increase the resilience and performance of Soldiers, their Families, and Army Civilians. Regularly scheduled training in conjunction with active command support for resilience initia-tives positively impacts the resilience and psychological health of Soldiers, with the greatest efficacy among the high risk demographic of Soldiers aged 18  24.   b. Resilience training is not a onetime training event - the intent is for resilience to be taught institutionally throughout a Soldiers career, and become part of Army culture. Commanders will work with their Master Resilience Trainers (MRTs) to develop and  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  an essential element of warfare. The technological convergence between comput-ers, communications, electronic devices, and sensors requires Soldiers to be able to operate in the increasingly contested and congested electromagnetic spectrum. In order to be successful, we need an operationally adaptive force capable of leverag-ing the electromagnetic spectrum to the best advantage. To face both current and future battlefield threats, it is incumbent upon Army leadership to ensure every Sol-dier has both familiarity with and a certain level of competence in dealing with elec-tronic warfare and cyber electromagnetic threats and can operate in a contested en-vironment.   a. Core competency individual EW training.  (1) All Soldiers will conduct EW training during IMT.  (2) EW training will be incorporated into all levels of OES, NCOES, and CES.   b. All Soldiers should be familiar with the basic employment and operation of vehicle-mounted and non-vehicle mounted Counter Radio-Controlled Improvised Explosive Device (CREW) systems. Proper CREW usage increases Soldier survivability and is every Soldiers responsibility. Improvised explosive devices (IEDs) have been re-ferred to as the single most effective weapon against our deployed forces and the proper use and employment of these systems can dramatically reduce combat-re-lated injuries and fatalities due to radio-controlled IEDs. Individual EW training tools are available at the Army Electronic Warfare Proponent Office website at https://atn.army.mil under Individual EW training tools.   c. Commanders at all echelons have assumed responsibility for organic Army EW missions and personnel. Units are assigned 29-series, EW personnel and command-ers will integrate these personnel into operations to facilitate CEMA. At the brigade level and higher, the EW element includes a mix of EW officers, WOs and NCOs and operates as part of an integrated team to manage the units EW fight. The element is responsible for synchronizing, integrating and de-conflicting EW actions with higher. At the battalion level, the EW NCO is responsible for integrating EW requirements and coordinating battalion operations with brigade.  (1) There are no assigned EW personnel at the company-level. Prior to deployment, company-level units will send two personnel to the Army CREW Master Gunner Course (ASI 1K) at Fort Huachuca, AZ. The 2-week CREW Master Gunner Course provides the basic fundamentals of EW, a basic understanding of the issues sur-rounding spectrum and frequency management, EW system capabilities, counter ra-dio-controlled EW (CREW) systems employment and convoy planning. Graduates will be able to operate CREW systems, improve the survivability of tactical unit con-voys attacked by radio controlled IED, advise commanders at the company-level on CREW system employment, track CREW equipment status, assist operators in the use and maintenance of CREW equipment, and assess the effectiveness of CREW for Company operations. This course is aimed at the junior and mid-grade Soldier level. Award of SI/ASI 1K upon successful completion.  (2) Units may identify requirements for additional personnel to support EW require-ments at the battalion and above levels and are encouraged to send personnel of all ranks to the 6-week Operational Electronic Warfare course at Fort Sill, OK. This course provides selected officers and NCOs with the fundamentals of EW, spectrum management, systems capabilities, CREW systems integration, and frequency man-agement. Graduates will be able to plan, coordinate, and synchronize EW across the range of military operations at the higher levels of Joint/Coalition Operations. This course is aimed at E  6 and above, all WOs, and all commissioned officers. Award of SI/ASI 1J upon successful completion.  (3) Additional EW courses are available at the Joint level to provide EW personnel serving at the JTF-level and above with additional training opportunities. These op-portunities include the Joint Electronic Warfare Theater Operations Course, con-ducted at Lackland AFB, San Antonio, TX. This is a two week intensive course pre-sented by a Joint cadre, pulling in expertise from the full spectrum of EW application, focused on producing graduates ready to apply and manage EW at the corporate level. Other courses include the Electronic Warfare Coordination Course conducted at Pensacola, FL and the Non-traditional Electronic Warfare Activities Course con-ducted at Pensacola, FL. These courses are designed to train personnel in the con-cepts and applications of Joint EW, integration of effects across the operational envi- TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  implement a resilience training program within their units. All Army units, RA and RC, will conduct recurring resilience training based on the Comprehensive Soldier and Family Fitness approved foundational resilience skills. Immersion training showed a positive impact on Soldier resilience and performance. Each Soldier becomes a sen-sor to behavioral indicators that can inform the command or encourage individuals to seek help. Positive outcomes have resulted from leaders talking about resilience skills during formations, and by integrating resilience and performance enhancement skills into physical training.   c. It is important to instill a mindset of resilience and self-reliance over dependency and create a culture of resilience in all members, Army-wide. Units must make resili-ence a part of their daily business, incorporating resilience and performance en-hancement skills into all training efforts and venues. Commanders will work with their MRTs to ensure formal and informal resilience training is incorporated into their unit training guidance and training calendar.  (1) Formal resilience training will be conducted by a MRT using approved training materials. Formal training is defined as scheduled training events that are generally classroom based and have an objective of teaching a specific skill that results in a Soldiers understanding and mastering the fundamental concepts of the skill.  (2) Informal resilience training is defined as the incorporation of resilience skills into scheduled and unscheduled unit activities; also described as concurrent training in ADRP 7  0. Units can incorporate informal resilience training into daily activities.   d. Common training requirement: All Regular Army and Reserve Component Sol-diers will participate in Resilience Training within their units. Army Civilian participa-tion is not mandatory, however, Army Civilians are authorized and encouraged to participate.  (1) Unit MRT will provide formal training within the unit.  (2) Unit MRT will support informal training as required.   e. Operational MRT Requirements:  (1) Each company (MTOE or TDA, and headquarters and headquarters detachment or headquarters and headquarters company) will have at least one MRT; with addi-tional MRT at dispersed locations (examples: platoon or section at armory or sub-in-stallation away from company HQ; recruiting stations away from HQ; Army Staff).  (2) For organizations with predominantly Civilian employees, the MRT training re-quirement is 1 MRT for every 250 assigned personnel. It is the commanders / direc-tors decision, in consultation with their trained MRT, which resilience and perfor-mance skills to train, if any, along with the level of training frequency, intensity and detail. Annual requirements for military personnel remain the same when assigned to civilian organizations.   f. Institutional MRT Requirements:  (1) Each company (MTOE or TDA, and headquarters and headquarters detachment or headquarters and headquarters company) will have at least one MRT.  (2) Officer and Enlisted Accessions. Each recruiting brigade will have at least one MRT trained Officer and one NCO, with one additional MRT trained person for every four recruiting battalions permanently located more than 50 miles away from their brigade level headquarters; and, at least one MRT trained NCO per recruiting battal-ion, with one additional MRT trained person for every four recruiting stations or com-panies permanently located more than 50 miles away from their battalion headquar-ters. Each ROTC brigade will have at least one officer and one NCO (may substitute qualified Army Civilians), with 25% of BOLC  A instructors/trainers MRT qualified.  (3) IMT. 25% of all AC drill sergeants, 100% of AIT platoon sergeants, and 100% of BOLC  B Instructors/trainers in the grades of 02  04, W3/W4, and E6  E8 will be MRT qualified. Drill sergeants and BOLC  B instructors who are MRT trained will lead institutional resilience training.  (4) Professional Military Education. There will be at least one military or Army Civil-ian MRT per branch school directorate of training and doctrine, and directorate of training and doctrine equivalent for Command and General Staff College, WOCC, USASMA and USAWC. There will be at least one small group leader or small group leader equivalent MRT per PME course. PME courses include: WLC, ALC, SLC, SMC, CCC, CGSOC, USAWC, WOAC, WOSC, and WOSSC. All MRTs for the above courses will facilitate institutional resilience training. Commandants will ensure  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  involving a water hazard during the conduct of operations. While not required, com-manders could consider identifying non-swimmers per TC 21  21, supplementing lo-cal regulations, directives, and standard operating procedures (SOP). Establish a method in unit SOP to visibly identify non-swimmers. Record water survival training on the Soldiers ITR  Ethics      All Soldiers, Army Civilians and employees, regardless of rank or position, shall com-ply with ethics rules and regulations as established in the Joint Ethics Regulation, DOD 5500.7  R. Violation of ethics standards may result in administrative or criminal penalties. Army personnel will receive the training they need to ensure that the high-est standards of integrity are maintained and that they take no action which under-mines public confidence in the Army. Initial, periodic, and annual training is required, as follows:    a. Initial training. Initial ethics training will be provided to all Army personnel. Active duty and reserve officers will receive initial ethics training no later than 90 days after entering active duty. Army Civilians will receive initial ethics training no later than 90 days after the employees initial entry date. New active duty and reserve enlisted members will receive initial ethics training within 180 days after entering active duty. In addition to the training methods described in paragraph d below, initial ethics training may consist of providing only written ethics materials prepared by a qualified instructor as defined by 5 CFR 2638.704(d), as long as the materials include the names of local ethics counselors and their e-mail addresses, addresses, and tele-phone numbers, and consist of: (1) The Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch (Standards) (5 CFR 2635) and the Joint Ethics Regulation to keep or review (or an appropriate Website); or (2) Summaries of the Standards, the Joint Ethics Regulation, and the 14 General Principles of Ethical Conduct (5 CFR 2635.101(b)) to keep.   b. Periodic training. Except for Army personnel required to file the SF 278, Executive Branch Personnel Public Financial Disclosure Report, or an OGE Form 450, Execu-tive Branch Confidential Financial Disclosure Report, or who are contracting officers, periodic ethics training will be provided to Army personnel as determined by their commanders or supervisors, consistent with the unit or organization training plan. Army personnel not required to attend annual ethics training are encouraged to take annual training. Additional annual acquisition ethics training will be provided for Army personnel working in an acquisition or contracting field as determined by their com-manders or supervisors.   c. Annual training. All Army personnel required to file the SF 278 or OGE Form 450, or who are contracting officers, must receive annual ethics training.   d. Initial, periodic, and annual training will be 1 hour in duration and personnel must be given official duty time to complete the training. All training must be approved by an ethics counselor and, except for initial training, must be: (1) Presented face-to-face by a qualified instructor; or (2) Prepared by a qualified instructor and presented by video teleconferencing, on-line computer training, computer- based, audiotape, videotape, telephonic, or similar method.   e. Availability of qualified instructors. A qualified instructor under paragraph d  (2) above is available if (1) a qualified instructor is standing by during and immediately following training to answer any questions or (2) if a telephone is available at the training site and personnel are provided the telephone number of a qualified instruc-tor who is available during and immediately following the training to answer ques-tions.    Electronic War-fare (EW)    DCS, G  3/5/7  Advances in the applications and use of the electromagnetic spectrum have caused the Army to reexamine EW capabilities. Telecommunications and data transfer have allowed global reach from remote locations. High speed data and voice technologies are pervasive, enabling immediate communication across borders. Rapid growth has occurred in laser, infrared, electro-optical, high-power microwave, computer network operations, and low-light sensor equipment. Personal computers, internet based communications, and satellite imaging systems provide previously unknown capabili-ties. The Armys ability to selectively dominate the electromagnetic spectrum is now  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  that all PME instructors receive a train-the-trainer orientation, taught by an MRT, on the specific resilience training module that they teach in their respective courses. Fo-cus on the orientation should be on how to properly teach the specific resilience skills that are included in the lessons. Orientation will also include how to properly execute the practical exercises that are associated with the resilience skills training.  (5) Two MRT trained staff or faculty members at the ARNG Professional Education Center or other comparable facility.  (6) Two MRT trained staff or faculty members per ARNG and USAR Regional Train-ing Institute, TASS Training Battalion and General Studies Training Battalion.   g. Self-Development Training.  (1) The Global Assessment Tool (GAT) assesses an individuals dimensions of strength. The GAT can be accessed at https://www.sft.army.mil. The results of the GAT direct the individual to targeted self-development training designed to build re-silience across the force (and the wider military community) and teach skills that sup-port social, emotional, family, spiritual, and physical resilience.  (2) All Soldiers must complete the GAT annually unless they are in a deployed status when their current GAT expires. In this case, Soldiers must complete the GAT within 60 days of redeployment from contingency operations.  (3) Soldiers are not required to release or discuss their results with anyone. If Sol-diers have questions about their results, they are encouraged to seek out their unit MRT or another trusted advisor and discuss.   h. Additional information regarding Comprehensive Soldier and Family Fitness is available at http://csf2.army.mil.   CIED       Counter-Improvised Explosive Device Training   a. Counter-Improvised Explosive Device (C  IED) institutional training provides the foundation based on tested, proven fundamental tasks that Soldiers and Leaders will build on for success in the operational environment. The common tasks developed for Soldiers, leaders, and staff captures the basic tactical expectations for each group, implementing them progressively at all levels of Army institutional training. C  IED training is standardized throughout the Army with the development and con-sistent updates within all Proponent courses.  (1) IMT C  IED training instills the necessary knowledge and skills for new Soldiers to operate as members of a unit in an operational environment. The training intro-duces Soldiers to common tasks associated with the three principal elements of Im-provised Explosive Device- Defeat operations (Signatures; Attack the Network, and Defeat the Device). It uses standard terminology and procedures to ease transition to the operational Army while emphasizing their awareness that IEDs are an endur-ing threat and must be a constant consideration in an operational environment. C  IED training received by new officers, BOLC B or WOBC, is taught to ensure their proficiency in C  IED-related leader tasks. These basic leader training tasks more thoroughly integrate the principal elements of IED  D Operations. This training is pro-gressive - fully incorporating the knowledge and skills gained from the core individual tasks.  (2) C  IED training within the PME for OES and NCOES continues to build off the core individual tasks received in initial training. This training incorporates the knowledge and skills needed according to the tactical expectations of leaders at their respective levels and refined during CIED training received at the OES and NCOES levels.   b. Unit C  IED training will ensure that Soldiers, leaders, and units achieve and main-tain proficiency in combat operations in an IED environment. Individual Soldiers, leaders and units will achieve and maintain the standards for C  IED tasks described in drills. STPs, and other training products.  (1) The C  IED tasks, such as react to an IED attack, prepare for an IED threat prior to movement, identify visual indicators of an IED, conduct a route search, and plan for C  IED operations, will be integrated into unit mission training through the follow-ing actions:  (a) Commanders will analyze their missions and training to accomplish them against the IED threat they expect to face.   TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  ronment and provide the student with foundational knowledge on how the other ser-vice branches employ EW. These courses complement the 29-series instruction and prepare personnel to conduct EW planning coordination from ground to space in support of CCDRs and JFCs.   d. Cyberspace is an operational domain that enables mission command and contrib-utes to unified land operations. All Soldiers should have an awareness of cyber-space, Army cyberspace operations, and their role in operating and defending friendly-force networks. Commanders at all echelons are responsible for the conduct of cyber electromagnetic activities which imposes additional requirements on the EW element. In addition to the EW training identified above, EW personnel will facilitate cyberspace operations. Units select and send EW personnel to the Army Cyber-space Operations Planning Course (ACOPC) to provide foundational knowledge and skills related to cyberspace and cyberspace operations. Individual cyber electromag-netic training and awareness tools are available at https://atn.army.mil/.   CBRN       a. Unit CBRN defense training will ensure that Soldiers, leaders, and units achieve and maintain proficiency in combat operations during CBRN conditions. Individual Soldiers, leaders, and units will achieve and maintain the standards for CBRN de-fense tasks described in CATS, drills, Soldier training publications (STPs), and Civil-ian training plans. (1) The CBRN defense tasks, such as contamination avoidance, protection, and de-contamination, will be integrated into unit mission training through the following ac-tions: (a) Commanders will analyze their missions and train to accomplish them against the CBRN threat they expect to face. (b) Selected field training exercises and command post exercises will include CBRN operations against an OPFOR with the capability of employing CBRN weapons. (c) External evaluations of overall unit proficiency must in part, measure how well the unit performs in a CBRN environment. (2) Unit CBRN defense training includes control party training. At minimum, the con-trol party consists of the commander, unit CBRN Defense NCO, Officer, and person-nel trained in the employment of CBRN defense equipment. Commanders may au-thorize an enlisted alternate to assist the CBRN Defense NCO and Officer. Members of the control party are responsible for gathering and assessing the data in the oper-ational environment, and to advise the commander of potential threats. Specialized training of the control party is accomplished at Installation or Regional CBRN De-fense Schools.  (3) Unit CBRN weapons defense training should include every aspect of CBRN war-fare operations. Modern CBRN weapons can affect large operational areas. There-fore, the impact of their employment and their residual effects on the organization for combat, disposition of forces, scheme of maneuver, and support requirements must be thoroughly understood.  (4) TDA organizations with CBRN defense missions including installation activities, medical treatment facilities, and installation tenant organizations will conduct collec-tive and individual CBRN defense training to standard. b. The CBRN defense stand-ards are published in Soldiers manuals, STPs, CATS, and Civilian training plans. Ci-vilian personnel expected to deploy with Army units will be trained to the same CBRN standards as military personnel.  c. To enhance CBRN defense training at the unit level, every tactical company, bat-tery, or troop will have a CBRN defense officer and NCO (MOS 74D). The CBRN NCO is the unit commanders principal defense trainer and advisor on CBRN de-fense operations and training, and CBRN defense equipment maintenance. Com-manders may authorize an enlisted alternate to assist the CBRN defense officer and NCO. d. Those tables of distribution and allowances units authorized CBRN defense equipment are required to conduct CBRN defense training.  e. The unit (company, battery, or troop) CBRN defense officer and NCO must suc-cessfully complete the CBRN Defense Course developed by the U.S. Army Chemi-cal School. This course will be taken at area or installation CBRN schools or TASS battalion facilities. Institution trained CBRN officers and enlisted personnel are not  TOPIC  Authority Reference  HQDA point of contact  Instructions for Selected Personnel  (b) Selected field training exercises and command post exercises will include C  IED operations against an OPFOR with the capability of employing IEDs.  (c) Training assessments of overall unit proficiency during Home Station and CTC experiences must in part, measure how well the unit performs in an IED threat envi-ronment.  (2) Unit C  IED training includes training selected unit personnel in biometrics, CREW (see also paragraph G  20), IED hand held detectors, robotics, etc.  (3) Unit C  IED training should include every aspect of operating in an IED threat en-vironment. Current IEDs can range in sophistication from photocell anti-tamper de-vices attached to military munitions to homemade explosives made from fertilizers. IEDs can have both high and low or no metal content. Current IEDs can significantly affect unit freedom of movement over large operational areas. Therefore, the impact of IED employment and their effects on the organization for combat, disposition of forces, scheme of maneuver, and support requirements must be thoroughly under-stood.   c. The C  IED training task standards are published in Soldiers manuals, STPs, CATS, and other training plans. Civilian personnel expected to deploy with Army units will be trained to the same C  IED standards as military personnel.   d. Those tables of distribution and allowance units authorized C  IED defense equip-ment are required to conduct C  IED defense training.   e. The C  IED training must be fully integrated into unit exercises (maneuver, func-tional, multi-functional and command and mission command) for both offensive and defensive operations. Realistic training requires that enemy doctrine and capabilities for the employment of IEDs be understood and used to enhance mission perfor-mance in an IED threat environment.   f. C  IED operations will be fully integrated into exercise situations. This integration will develop and test the capability of commanders, staffs, and units to perform their missions under expected IED threat conditions. A units C  IED proficiency will be determined by having the unit accomplish its mission under IED threat conditions during external and internal evaluations to STP standards (See STP 3  CIED  SM  TG).   g. Emergency essential. Army Civilians will be trained C  IED survival skills. Emer-gency essential contractor personnel and local nationals of foreign host countries will be trained in accordance with applicable contracts and host nation agreements.   Legend A: Annual frequency requirement B: Biennial frequency requirement. Trained once per two years. C: Commanders Responsibility (See AR 600  20) I: In processing. Required within 30 days whenever Soldiers in-process to a new installation or Civilians in-process to the workforce. O: Ongoing. Continuous training, not a single event. P: Pre-deployment frequency requirement. R: Redeployment. Addressed upon redeployment from an operational mission. S: Semiannual frequency requirement. Trained twice per year. OPT: Optional. IMT: Initial Military Training (Basic Combat Training, AIT, OSUT, BOLC A/B, WOBC). OES (PME): Officer Education System (officer and warrant officer Professional Military Education) (not including BOLC A or B, or WOBC). NCOES: Non-commissioned Officer Education System. SCP: School of Command Preparation (PCC branch-immaterial and branch-specific phases). CES: Civilian Education System. Note: Published predeployment training may have guidance which supersedes training requirement frequency contained herein. Section II Other Army Training Programs and selected-personnel mandatory training requirements F  4.  Predeployment Training Guidance FORSCOM, as the primary force provider, maintains the standing pre-deployment training guidance for Army forces supporting ASCC and CCMD requirements. Published pre-deployment guidance supersedes training requirement fre-quency contained in tables  F  1 and F  3, or exemptions identified in paragraph F  4. CONUS Replacement Center Indi-vidual Augmentee Training does not cover all pre-deployment training; some training must be done on-line or through self-study before reporting. All requirements listed in pre-deployment training guidance will undergo periodic reviews in order to identify and possibly eliminate obsolete or duplicative requirements. This process will assist commanders in their mission analysis process and the development of unit training plans. F  5.  Physical readiness training program a.  The objective of the Army physical readiness training program is to enhance physical readiness for combat by opti-mizing physical and functional capacity in the following domains: (1)  Structural Capacity (a)  Body Composition  percentage of lean and fat body mass (see AR 600  9). (b)  Bone Density  bone thickness contributing to tensile strength. (c)  Static Balance  posture, stability and balance while stationary. (d)  Static Flexibility  range of motion associated with plasticity. (2)  Physical Capacity. (a)  Muscular Strength  ability to generate maximum muscular force during a single contraction to lift, push, pull heavy objects. (b)  Muscular Endurance  ability to generate repeated submaximal muscular force to volitional fatigue. (c)  Power  ability to generate maximal force over the shortest time to move the body or an object through space. (d)  Aerobic Endurance  ability to execute sustained movements without stopping or slowing down. (e)  Anaerobic Endurance  ability to generate maximal running speed for short distances. (3)  Movement Skills. (a)  Agility  ability to move rapidly for short durations with multiple changes of direction. (b)  Dynamic Balance  posture, stability, and balance while moving - often under load. (c)  Coordination - ability to synchronize movement of your arms, legs, and torso while in motion. (d)  Dynamic flexibility  range of motion associated with elasticity. (e)  Multiaxial Movements  body movements in time and space. (f)  Reaction Time  react to external kinesthetic stimuli. b.  The Army PRTP develops each component of structural and physical capacity and movement skills that contributes to tactical and technical competence and forms the physical foundation for all individual and unit training. (see FM 7  22). (1)  Muscular Strength, high intensity movement against heavy resistance (for example, mounting a HIMTT tire), pre-pares Soldiers for the high physical demanding job/combat-related tasks. Executing short duration, low repetition ( < 6 reps), high resistance (> 85 percent of 1RM) muscular work, allows Soldiers to develop the muscular strength and power to over-match task requirements thereby minimizing relative workload. (2)  Muscular endurance, low intensity movement against submaximal resistance for long periods of time (for example, loading ammo cans), prepares Soldiers to accomplish repetitive job/combat-related tasks. Executing long duration, high repetition ( > 12 reps), low resistance (< 65 percent of 1RM) muscular work, allows Soldiers to develop the muscular endurance to match task requirements thereby minimizing relative workload. (3)  Power  high intensity explosive movement against heavy resistance (for example, mounting a platform under load), prepares Soldiers for the explosive job/combat-related tasks. Executing short duration, high resistance tasks, allows Sol-diers to develop the explosive power to over-match task requirements. (4)  Aerobic Endurance, low intensity (< 70 percent VO2 max) physical movement for long distances/ periods of time (> 1,000m; 12  30 minutes  for example, marching 20km over uneven terrain under load), enhances stamina and prepares Soldiers to accomplish long duration job/combat-related tasks. Executing long duration, sustainable movements allows Soldiers to develop the aerobic capacity to perform submaximal tasks for long durations and better recover from short duration high intensity tasks. (5)  Anaerobic Endurance, high intensity (> 70 percent VO2 max) physical movement for short duration (2  4 minutes; < 400m  for example, sprinting from cover to cover), enhances speed and prepares Soldiers to accomplish short duration job/combat-related tasks. Executing high intensity, short duration movements allows Soldiers to develop the anaerobic capacity to over-match task requirements. c.  Training focus  : Physical fitness is an integral part of combat readiness. The ability to develop, maintain, and perform Warrior Tasks and Battle Drills (WTBDs) and High Physical Demand Tasks (HPDTs) is critical to mission success. Com-manders should focus their PRTP on the PRT domains critical to the units mission, while being mindful of the physical demands inherent to Warrior Tasks and Battle Drills and Common Soldier Tasks. Soldiers must be physically fit in all five components of the physical capacity domain. Only then can Commanders turn their attention to integrating structural and physical capacity into their functional mission training. Mission-focused PRT will be conducted to prepare Soldiers to meet the physical demands of Decisive Action. FM 7  22 describes the science of exercise prescription as it pertains to the development of mission-specific periodized training programs. The cornerstone of the Army PRTP is exercise intensity. Exercise intensity regulates every aspect of the periodized exercise prescription to include duration (repetitions/ distance), load (resistance/velocity), and rest/recovery. Exercise intensity is generally divided into three categories: high, moderate, and low within the domains of muscular work capacity and cardio-respiratory work capacity. Muscular work is categorized into high, moderate and low intensity based upon the force (load, resistance) required to execute one maximal repetition (1RM); high intensity = muscular strength (work > 85 percent 1RM), moderate intensity = hypertrophy (65  85 percent 1RM) and low intensity = muscular endurance (< 65 percent 1RM). As muscular work intensity decreases, repetitions increase and rest/recovery decrease. Soldiers should strive to execute two high intensity muscular strength workouts and one moderate/low intensity muscular hypertrophy/endurance workout each week. Cardio-respiratory work is not generally categorized into high, moderate, low intensity levels, however for purposes of symmetry with muscular work we can generally assign cardio-respiratory work based upon exercise heart rate. High intensity anaerobic work is generally > 85 percent of an individuals exercise heart rate - EHR (for example, high intensity interval training  HIIT), moderate inten-sity aerobic work is 65  85 percent of EHR (for example, pace runs, tempo runs, race-pace runs) and low intensity aerobic work is < 65 percent of EHR (for example, long slow distance runs, recovery runs). Recent research has demonstrated that HIIT training provides the greatest benefit to both anaerobic and aerobic conditioning while minimizing running impact to the lower extremities. d.  Applicability. The physical readiness training program policy applies Armywide. It includes all Soldiers, functional branches, units, and operating agencies. Physical readiness training provides a foundation for combat readiness and must be an integral part of every Soldiers life. Unit readiness begins with the physical readiness of the individual Soldier and the NCOs and officers who lead them. (1)  Commanders or the senior military supervisors will establish periodized physical training programs consistent with FM 7  22 and the Army Human Dimension Strategy. PRT sessions will be conducted with appropriate intensity, frequency, and duration to develop a high level of structural, physical, and functional work capacity. Commanders (company through division) will leverage the expertise of Soldiers awarded the Master Fitness Trainer (MFT) ASI in planning, executing the units physical readiness training program. (2)  Commanders must establish a unit periodized training plan based upon high physical demand METL and WTBD/CST HPDT tasks. They may use the SMART acronym (specific, measureable, attainable, realistic, and timely) to ensure Soldiers can efficiently and effectively attain their progressive and sequential training goals. Commanders must adhere to the phases, principles, components and types of training outlined in FM 7  22. Commanders may find it useful to identify certain special populations within their command that require additional or specialized training to overcome a weakness, illness or injury. In addition, the unit periodized training program should emphasize the benefits of performance nutrition, hydration, healthy supplementation, and sleep/recovery. (3)  Special conditioning programs may be appropriate for Soldiers who have difficulty meeting unit goals or Army standards. However, special programs or additional PRT is not always a solution to overcome identified weaknesses and can lead to over training and injury. These programs will not be used to discipline Soldiers that may already have negative attitude toward physical exercise. Commanders will ensure that special conditioning programs do not violate the Armys hazing policy prescribed in AR 600  20. (4)  Special conditioning programs for Soldiers on the Army Body Composition Program (ABCP) will be developed according to FM 7  22. Exercise programs designed to assist Soldiers with weight control problems should be developed in conjunction with the unit nutrition counselor. Commanders should avoid placing all special needs Soldiers in the same conditioning program and understand that more exercise will not automatically result in improved body composition. (5)  On a limited basis competitive, intramural sports can complement the units PRTP by providing opportunities to build esprit de corps, will to win, teamwork, and morale. They should not be used as the substitute for formal periodized physical training. Commanders should be aware that high injury rates are often associated with competitive sports and should apply appropriate risk mitigation strategies to ensure the safety of their Soldiers. e.  The Pregnancy/Postpartum Physical Training (PPPT) Program is designed to maintain health and fitness levels of pregnant Soldiers and to assist them in returning to pre-pregnancy fitness levels. After the pregnancy has terminated and the Soldier is successfully integrate back into unit, their periodized training program must be reset with an emphasis on exercise regularity with minimal progressive overload. (1)  Commanders will ensure that all eligible Soldiers participate in the PPPT Program and that personnel are available to conduct the physical training portion of the PPPT Program for the pregnant/postpartum Soldier in a manner that is consistent with the content, standards, policies, procedures, and responsibilities as set forth by the Public Health Command (PHC); information is located at http://phc.amedd.army.mil/topics/healthyliving/al/pages/armypregnan-cypostpar-tumphysicaltrainingprogram.aspx/. (2)  Garrison commanders will provide support to mission commanders by ensuring adequate and appropriate facilities and equipment are provided for PPPT Program execution. (3)  Medical treatment facility (MTF) commanders will ensure health care experts provide consultative support and conduct health-related instruction for the PPPT Program on their installation consistent with the PHC information is avail-able at http://phc.amedd.army.mil/topics/healthyliving/al/pages/armypregnancypostpartumphysicaltrainingpro-gram.aspx/. (4)  As the specified proponent, MEDCOM will ensure the PHC information on PPPT remains current and provides medical consultative and educational support and periodic training of PPPT Program instructor trainers and medical experts through the PHC to senior commanders and MTF commanders, with information located at http://phc.amedd.army.mil/top-ics/healthyliving/al/pages/armypregnancypostpartumphysicaltrainingprogram.aspx/. (5)  Reserve Component, not on active duty, geographically remote Soldiers, and those assigned to installations with a negligible pregnant Soldier population may utilize the specifically designed PPPT program materials available from PHC. f.  Soldiers who are pregnant or who are recovering from a pregnancy are exempt from regular unit physical readiness training and testing for the duration of the pregnancy and 180 days past pregnancy termination. (1)  Pregnant and postpartum Soldiers must be cleared by their health care provider prior to participating in any physical fitness training program. (2)  Prior to the commencement of postpartum convalescent leave, Soldiers will be issued a temporary profile for 45 days which begins on the day of pregnancy termination to allow physical training at the Soldiers own pace. (3)  Soldiers are encouraged to use the At-Home component of the Army PPPT program while on convalescent leave. Following the convalescent leave period, Soldiers are required to participate in the installation PPPT program for up to 180 days after pregnancy termination. (4)  Postpartum Soldiers must receive health care provider clearance if returning to their units physical readiness train-ing prior to 180 days following pregnancy termination. g.  Physical readiness testing gives Soldiers an incentive to stay in good physical condition and allows commanders a means of assessing the physical readiness levels of their unit. Accordingly, all Soldiers (RA and RC) must be able to pass the APFT at any time, except upon return from deployment. Soldiers will be administered a record APFT no earlier than 90 days following redeployment. (1)  Physical readiness tests will not form the foundation of unit or individual PRT programs . Physical readiness testing ensures the baseline level of physical readiness essential for every Soldier in the Army, regardless of MOS or duty assign-ment. Unit programs must build on this base level of conditioning and to meet or exceed mission-related physical perfor-mance tasks. (2)  Results of the APFT will be recorded on DA Form 705 (Physical Fitness Test Scorecard) which will be maintained for each Soldier. This scorecard will be kept in the ITR at a central location in the unit, recorded in DTMS, and will accompany the individual as part of transferred records for RA Soldiers or RC Soldiers, during PCS. Units, separate or-ganizations, and offices will have a system to monitor performance of their Soldiers. (3)  Individuals will be weighed when they take record APFTs; or at least every 6 months in accordance with AR 600  9. AR 600  9 encourages commanders to wait a minimum of 7 days before weighing an individual after an APFT. h.  Commanders may establish incentives and unit physical readiness objectives related to their mission essential tasks. Soldiers who score 270 or above, with a minimum of 90 points per event on the APFT, and meet body composition stand-ards will be awarded the Physical Fitness Badge for physical readiness excellence in accordance with AR 600  8  22. Soldiers are required to meet these criteria during each APFT for record to continue to wear the badge. i.  Requirement. Personnel in the RA, ARNG, and USAR will take part in either collective or individual physical read-iness training programs year-round per FM 7  22. Regular Army units, individuals, and Reserve Component Soldiers on active duty will conduct regularly scheduled PRT four to five times per week for 60  90 minutes. Commanders are encour-aged to structure the duty day so they can conduct physical readiness training at a time and location that is most effective in eliciting the desired fitness outcomes. PRT at 0630 is authorized but not required. (1)  Commanders of ARNG and USAR units will incorporate mission-focused PRT into appropriate inactive duty train-ing periods. (2)  Personnel who cannot take part in the units regular PRTP because of a medical limitation will be placed in a conditioning program established in accordance with AR 40  501. FM 7  22 provides guidance on Special Conditioning Programs for Soldiers recovering from injury, illness, or other medical conditions. Personnel with medical limitations are not excused from physical training.  (3)  The preferred footwear for running is the running shoe. However, some physical training in well-fitted and broken-in boots, to include limited running and rapid foot marching, may be appropriate. Activities conducted in combat boots should progressively increase in duration allowing Soldiers to adapt to performing in boots. Training in boots will prepare Soldiers for running or forced-marches over rough terrain. Commanders must consider the experience of their Soldiers and their unit missions when deciding on the footwear for PRT. j.  Soldiers must meet the physical readiness standards set forth in FM 7  22, appendix A and this regulation. Soldiers who are unable to meet these standards or the mission-related physical readiness standards required of their duty assign-ment and position may be subject to administrative action.  (1)  Commanders of ARNG and USAR units will incorporate mission-focused PRT into appropriate inactive duty train-ing periods. (2)  Personnel will be excused from PRT only during periods of temporary or permanent medical limitations established in accordance with AR 40  501. FM 7  22 provides guidance on Special Conditioning Programs for Soldiers recovering from injury, illness or other medical conditions.  (3)  Personnel who cannot take part in PRT because of a profile condition will be placed in rehabilitative and recondi-tioning programs and, within profile guidelines given by health care personnel, be supervised by the commander. k.  Soldiers must take a record APFT every 6 months for RA and AGR Soldiers, and annually for all other USAR and ARNG Soldiers. If a Soldier fails a record APFT, commanders may allow Soldiers to retake the test as soon as the Soldier and commander feel the Soldier is ready to test (not to exceed 90 days). A repetitive APFT failure occurs when a Soldier fails a record test, is provided adequate time and assistance to condition (not to exceed 90 days), and fails again. Soldiers without medical profiles that fail a retest or fail to take the APFT with no authorized waiver within the required time will be barred from re-enlistment or processed for separation from the service. Provisions for separation are in AR 600  8  24 (for officers) or AR 635  200 (for enlisted Soldiers) and counterpart ARNG and USAR regulations. See AR 600  8  24 for officers who have incurred a statutory active duty service obligation because of participation in an Army-sponsored edu-cational or training program. (1)  Soldiers 40 years of age and older will be evaluated for coronary heart disease risk factors as part of their periodic health assessment. The medical procedures for the CVSP are outlined in AR 40  501. It is the Soldiers responsibility to ensure that the CVSP is conducted as close to the 40th birthday as possible and as promptly as medical facilities permit. (2)  A Soldiers centrally selected for command positions and CSM designees, regardless of age, must have a CVSP, meet body composition standards set forth in AR 600  9, and pass the three-event APFT or APFT using an alternate aerobic event before assuming command or assignment to a CSM position. A CVSP clearance granted during the Soldiers last periodic health assessment is sufficient to meet the CVSP requirement. (3)  Soldiers 55 years of age and older have the option of taking the three-event APFT or an APFT using an alternate aerobic event. An APFT using an alternate aerobic event is defined as pushups, sit-ups and an alternate aerobic event (2.5-mile-walk test, 800-yard-swim test, 6.2-mile-stationary bicycle ergometer test or 6.2 mile bicycle test on a conventional bicycle) per FM 7  22, appendix A. Soldiers must earn a minimum score of 60 points on the push- up and the sit-up events. Soldiers must also complete the alternate aerobic event in a time equal to or less than the time for the age group as listed in FM 7  22, appendix A. Although the alternate aerobic APFT events were designed to assess the aerobic fitness and muscular endurance of Soldiers with permanent medical profiles or long-term temporary profiles who cannot take the regular, three-event APFT, Soldiers over 55 years of age are not to be considered a profiled Soldier unless a current profile exists. The commander will determine the alternate aerobic events based on guidance from FM 7  22, the Soldiers physical abilities, preference and availability of equipment and input from the healthcare provider when a profile exists. (4)  Recalled retirees are not required to take the APFT. However, retirees must maintain a personal PRT program in order to stay within Army body composition standards during the period of recall. Retirees who exceed the Army body composition standards during the period of recall will be placed in the Army Body Composition Program. (5)  Soldiers 60 years of age and older have the option of not taking the APFT; however, they must maintain a personal physical readiness program approved by a physician and remain within Army body composition standards. l.  Physical readiness standards are developed by TRADOC and approved by DCS, G  3/5/7. The APFT provides a measure of aerobic power and upper and lower body muscular endurance. It is a performance test that indicates a Soldiers ability to perform physically and handle their own body weight. Standards are adjusted for age and physiological differ-ences between men and women. The APFT consists of pushups, sit-ups, and a 2-mile run, conducted in that order on the same day. To be considered a record test, these events must be completed within two hours from the start of the pushup event until completion of the 2-mile run or alternate aerobic event. (Repetition and time guidelines are located on DA Form 705, APFT Scorecard and FM 7  22, appendix A). Record APFT scores will be annotated on a DA Form 705, APFT Scorecard. For Soldiers on a permanent profile or an extended temporary profile (more than three months), a record test must include an aerobic event. The only approved aerobic events are the 2-mile run, 800-yard swim, 6.2-mile stationary bicycle ergometer, 6.2-mile conventional bicycle or the 2.5-mile walk. Soldiers on permanent profile or a temporary profile of long duration (more than three months) will only receive points for those events taken. For example, if a Soldier has a permanent profile for the 2-mile run event and scores 70 points in the pushup, 85 points in the sit-up and receives a GO for the 2.5 mile Walk, the Soldier will receive a score of 155 points in the total score column of the DA Form 705 (see FM 7  22 for APFT scoring). Testing is prescribed for all Soldiers as follows: (1)  Commanders may administer the APFT as often as they wish; however, they must specify beforehand when the APFT is for record. RA and AGR Soldiers will take a record APFT twice each calendar year, all other USAR and ARNG Soldiers will take a record APFT annually. A minimum of 4 months will separate record tests for RA and AGR. The 4-month rule does not apply to Soldiers that must make-up a record test or re-testing for an APFT failure. A minimum of 8 months will separate record tests with no more than 14 months between record tests for other RC Soldiers (less IRR). The 8 month rule does not apply to Soldiers that require makeup testing or re-testing for an APFT failure. The intent is for all RA and AGR Soldiers to take a record APFT every 6 months. Mission requirements often prevent the even spacing of record tests. Therefore, commanders are encouraged to test Soldiers for record as close to the record test window as pos-sible. Soldiers requiring make-up testing will be scheduled in accordance with the unit Standard Operating Procedures. Soldiers requiring re-testing for an APFT failure will be scheduled as prescribed in paragraph F5m(6) of this regulation. (2)  Ready Reserve Soldiers (less IRR) are authorized to take the APFT while in an active duty (AD) or inactive duty (ID) status.  RC Soldiers assigned or attached to RA, RC or National Guard units and organizations for 30 consecutive days or more will follow the physical readiness program for that unit or organization. If the IRR Soldier is going to perform an APFT in an IDT status, they must first be attached to a unit. Individual mobilization augmentee and IRR Soldiers who are on tours of annual training, ADT, or active duty special work will take the APFT when they are placed on tours of duty for 12 or more consecutive calendar days. Those who fail the test will be retested in accordance with the provisions of paragraph F5m(6). (3)  Soldiers who fail a record APFT or fail to take a record APFT within 12 months will be flagged in accordance with AR 600  8  2. In the event of a record test failure, commanders may allow Soldiers to retake the test as soon as the Soldier and the commander feel the Soldier is ready to test (not to exceed 90 days). RA and AGR Soldiers without a medical profile will be retested no later than 90 days following the record APFT failure. Reserve component Soldiers not on active duty and without a medical profile will be tested no later than 180 days following the initial APFT failure. An intervening medical profile does not restart the 90-day training period; however, Soldiers must have at least two times the length of the medical excusal, not to exceed 90 days in preparation for a record APFT. (4)  If a Soldier fails to meet the physical readiness standards in FM 7  22, the unit commander will remove the Soldier from parachute, diving, and flight crew status. This action will be taken to ensure the safety of that Soldier and other unit members . (5)  Personnel with permanent medical profiles that preclude participation in the pushup and/or sit-up event will take the events the permanent profile permits. The 2-mile run event, or an approved alternate test event as outlined in FM 7  22, must be taken if the test is for record. The alternate aerobic events are only for Soldiers with permanent physical profiles that prevent them from running two miles. Soldiers with temporary profiles of long duration (more than six months) may also take an alternate test if approved by the commander. (6)  All Soldiers must attain a score of at least 60 points on each test event or receive a GO on the alternate aerobic event. If a Soldier does not attain a minimum of 60 points in each event or a GO on an alternate aerobic event, the Soldier is an event failure. When a Soldier fails one or more events, the Soldier is a test failure. Exceptions include: Soldiers in basic combat training must complete a 3-event APFT near the end of the course and must score a minimum of 50 points on each event to qualify for completion of BCT. No alternate events are authorized. Soldiers in AIT and OSUT must score at least 60 points on each event. Recommendations for minimum APFT performance scores are provided by the CG, TRADOC and approved by DCS, G  3/5/7. (7)  Soldiers assigned or attached to Joint headquarters, such as NATO, OSD, or other staff assignment, will take the APFT. The senior Army Soldier in the organization will ensure the APFT is conducted and scores are included in records and performance reports. m.  Administrators of the APFT must be Soldiers currently serving in the military to include the RC, senior ROTC cadets, and senior USMA cadets. The following personnel are prohibited from administering the APFT: Civilians, retired Soldiers, and IRR Soldiers who are not on tours of duty for 12 or more consecutive calendar days for annual training, active duty training, or active duty for special work. One exception to this paragraph is granted to Soldiers in isolated locations (such as an embassy) where there exists an insufficient number of Soldiers to administer the APFT. In this case, military members from other Services or civilians, who are working in the Soldiers chain of command, may administer the APFT after reviewing all requirements of administering the APFT outlined in FM 7  22, appendix A. (1)  The APFT provides an assessment of the PRT program. Physical conditioning or training periods solely devoted toward meeting APFT requirements are highly discouraged. (2)  Commanders may administer the APFT as often as they wish; however, they must specify beforehand when the results are for record. RA and AGR Soldiers will take the APFT twice each calendar year. A minimum of 4 months will separate record tests. Soldiers that require make-up testing or re-testing for an APFT failure are exempt from the 4-month rule. The intent is for the RA and the AGR Soldiers to take a record APFT every 6 months. Mission requirements often prevent the even spacing of record tests. Therefore, commanders are encouraged to test Soldiers for record as close to the record test window as possible. Soldiers requiring make-up testing will be scheduled in accordance with the unit SOP. Soldiers requiring re-testing for an APFT failure will be scheduled as prescribed in paragraph G9m(6) of this regulation. (3)  RC TPUs and IMA Soldiers will take the APFT once each calendar year. A minimum of 8 months will separate record tests with no more than 14 months between record tests. The 8 month rule does not apply to Soldiers that require makeup testing or re-testing for an APFT failure. (4)  RC Soldiers assigned or attached to RA units and organizations for 30 consecutive days or more will follow the physical readiness program for that unit or organization. An IRR Soldier conducting an APFT in an IDT status must first be attached to a unit. (5)  Soldiers requiring makeup testing will be scheduled in accordance with the unit standard operating procedures. (6)  Soldiers who fail a record APFT for the first time or fail to take a record APFT within the required period will be flagged in accordance with AR 600  8  2. In the event of a record test failure, commanders may allow Soldiers to retake the test as soon as the Soldier and the commander feel the Soldier is ready. Soldiers without a medical profile will be retested no later than 90 days following the initial APFT failure. Reserve component Soldiers not on active duty and without a medical profile will be tested no later than 180 days following the initial APFT failure. (7)  Personnel with permanent medical profiles that preclude participation in the pushup or sit-up event will take the remaining events if the permanent profile permits. The 2-mile run event, or an approved alternate test event as outlined in FM 7  22, must be taken if the test is for record. The alternate test is for Soldiers with permanent physical profiles that prevent them from running two miles. Soldiers with temporary profiles of long duration (more than three months) may also take an alternate test if approved by the commander and the health care personnel. Soldiers must be given three months to prepare for the alternate test from either the date of the profile or the date recommended by health care personnel. (8)  Personnel who initially fail the CVSP and are subsequently cleared will have no more than 179 days of conditioning before retaking a record APFT. (9)  All Soldiers must attain a score of at least 60 points on each test event or receive a GO on the alternate aerobic event. If a Soldier does not attain a minimum of 60 points in each event or a GO on an alternate aerobic event, the Soldier is an event failure. When a Soldier fails one or more events, the Soldier is a test failure. Exceptions are listed below: (a)  Soldiers in basic combat training must attain 50 points on each event or a score as determined by DCS, G  3/5/7, in coordination with TRADOC. (This exception does not apply to AIT, OSUT). (b)  Soldiers awaiting IET may be tested, but no formal record of their score will be maintained. (10)  Soldiers in IET will be tested near the end of the course to qualify for completion of basic combat training, AIT, and OSUT. (11)  TRADOC recommends physical readiness standards for entry into Ranger and Airborne training and into other schools having separate physical readiness standards. USASOC, in conjunction with TRADOC, sets the readiness stand-ards for entry into Special Forces training. The DCS, G  3/5/7, reviews and approves these standards. n.  PRT programs for deployed or deploying units in support of ongoing combat operations should be based on the most physically demanding tasks and support the physical performance of the Warrior tasks and Battle Drills (WTBD). (1)  Units should adjust their periodized PRT program after redeployment. Long deployments may contribute to a de-cline in unit fitness levels. Therefore, Soldiers should re-enter the PRT program at a lower intensity and slowly progress back to pre-deployment training intensities over 60  90 days (see FM 7  22). (2)  Soldiers will be administered a record APFT no earlier than three months after redeployment. o.  FM 7  22 provides guidance for preventing injuries during PRT (see FM 7  22 for guidance on reconditioning injured Soldiers).  (1)  Trainers will be alert to symptoms indicating that a Soldiers strength and endurance limits have been reached or exceeded, or a serious medical condition exists (see FM 7  22 for overtraining syndrome).  Pre-deployment: (a)  Units should use the backward planning process based on the number of days they will have to do PRT before deployment. (b)  Basing the physical training on the units most physically demanding tasks, the program should incorporate activi-ties such as foot marching short distances (3  5 miles) under fighting load, lifting and loading equipment, conditioning for obstacle course negotiation, speed running (with and without) fighting load, climbing drills and strength training circuit. PRT should be conducted five days per week. All unit types should alternate endurance and mobility activities with strength and mobility activities in accordance with FM 7  22. (c)  Units should incorporate acclimatization considerations when conducting PRT during preparation for deployment per FM 7  22. Leaders must ensure this acclimatization is done without undue risk to the Soldier. (2)  If a commander or PRT leader detects any symptoms of injury, exercises will be stopped, and the Soldier immedi-ately referred for medical evaluation.  During deployment, units should plan for and conduct PRT as mission and conditions permit. (3)  Training intensity should be increased slowly so that the body can adapt to more strenuous training. Post-deploy-ment. (a)  Units should resume PRT as soon as practicable after redeployment. Long deployments often contribute to a decline in unit fitness levels. Therefore, Soldiers should re-enter the PRT program at a lower intensity and rationally progress back to pre-deployment training intensities over a period of 60  90 days. (b)  Upon return from deployment Soldiers will be administered a record APFT no earlier than three months for RA and six months for RC Soldiers. p.  Environmental considerations, particularly weather and altitude, are important in planning PRT programs (see FM 7  22 for environmental considerations). FM 7  22 provides guidance for preventing injuries during PRT (see FM 7  22 for guidance on reconditioning injured Soldiers). (1)  Trainers will be alert to symptoms indicating that a Soldiers strength and endurance limits have been reached or exceeded, or a serious medical condition exists (see FM 7  22 for overtraining syndrome).  (2)  If a commander or PRT leader detects any symptoms of injury, exercises will be stopped, and the Soldier immedi-ately referred for medical evaluation. (3)  Training intensity should be increased slowly so that the body can adapt to more strenuous training. q.  Environmental considerations, particularly weather and altitude, are important in planning PRT programs (see FM 7  22, Appendix D for environmental considerations).  r.  The Army Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Sports Program enhances physical readiness requirements of the military. Many sports can be used to promote unit esprit de corps and teamwork, develop a competitive spirit, increase motivation for physical readiness development, improve physical fitness, help relieve stress, and add variety to unit pro-grams. Vigorous sports such as basketball, triathlon, boxing, wrestling, racket games, soccer, swimming, biking, and cross-country skiing, have the potential to enhance physical readiness. The intent of such programs is to supplement the unit PRT program. (1)  MWR Sports and Fitness staff will plan and conduct unit-level/intramural sports activities. Programming will also include aerobic and fitness classes, as well as cardiovascular and strength training. MWR organizations and personnel can provide assistance to commanders to provide special programming to enhance their mission and support their Com-manders Cup Competitions. (2)  MWR physical fitness facilities (gymnasiums and swimming pools) may be used in unit training programs, to in-clude the following: (a)  Weight training. (b)  Circuit training. (c)  Unit PRT. (d)  Swimming and water survival training. (3)  When mission accomplishment is not jeopardized, commanders and supervisors should permit their personnel to take part in the Armys All Army/Armed Forces Sports Program and international competitive events such as Conseil International du Sport Militaire, Pan American, and Olympic Games. Participation should be used as a way to promote physical readiness at the highest level of competition. All Army/Armed Forces competitions include boxing, wrestling, taekwondo, cross country, basketball, soccer, volleyball, triathlon, softball, bowling, golf, marathon, and rugby. Interna-tional competitions include many Olympic sports as well as several purely military disciplines, to include parachuting, shooting, biathlon, and naval pentathlon. Two international competitive events related to military physical readiness are as follows: (a)  The Military Pentathlon (shooting, obstacle running, grenade throwing, utility swimming, and cross-country run-ning). (b)  The Confederation of Inter-allied Reserve Officers military skills competition (orienteering, obstacle swimming, shooting, obstacle running, grenade throwing, map reading, and distance estimating). F  6.  Army warrior training AWT maintains Soldier proficiency through the performance of WTBDs and supports the units METL. The WTBD are geared toward the operating environment and lessons learned. All Soldiers must be ready to fight and complete the mission by applying the skills learned through the fundamentals of WTBD. Proficiency in WTBD is enhanced through the execu-tion of tasks in the following categories; shoot, move, communicate, and survive. The AWT is integrated into the unit collective training strategy. a.  AWT is progressive training using WTBD selected from skill levels 1 through 4 as found in STP 21  1  SMCT and STP 21  24  SMCT. b.  All Soldiers (E  1 to E  7, WO1, WO2, O  1, and O  2), on active duty (regardless of component) will complete AWT annually, unless waived by 2-star commander. c.  All RC Soldiers, (E  1 to E  7, WO1, WO2, O  1, and O  2), not on active duty, will complete AWT biennially, or more frequently as directed by the unit commander unless waived by 2-star commander. d.  AWT will be monitored by unit leaders and conducted by the Soldiers first line leader/supervisor. The first line leader is responsible for providing rapid feedback from their training records. This will serve as the basis for input to the commanders assessment of a Soldier and leaders proficiency. e.  Leaders assess WTBD during field training, weapons qualification, Sergeants Time Training, and other training events through the year; it is not necessary to conduct the whole of WTBD during a single training event. f.  A list of WTBD can be found on ATMS (DTMS, Army Training Network) or AKO (My Training). g.  Revisions to the WTBD will be reviewed biennially and published as necessary. F  7.  Weapons qualification training a.  Weapons qualification is the commanders tool for measuring the effectiveness of his weapons training program. Like physical fitness, marksmanship requires continual training to improve performance and prevent skill atrophy. Com-manders will ensure individuals and crews are proficient in the safe and effective use, maintenance, and employment of weapons and weapon systems. Individual, crew-served and collective weapons standards described in DA Pam 350  38, AR 350  1, paragraphs 1-17, 5-6, F-1, and F-7 must be met by individuals and crews. The standards and frequency for weapons qualification are mandatory. However, commanders may tailor strategies in DA Pam 350  38 as required to allow their units to achieve standards.  (1)  Preliminary marksmanship instruction will be conducted before instructional or qualification firing of weapons. Examples of preliminary marksmanship instruction are: fundamentals of marksmanship, shot grouping, battle sight zero-ing, target detection/identification, range estimation, crew drill, immediate and remedial actions, and weapons safety, clearance, and maintenance. Examples of advanced marksmanship training are: night firing, firing in mission- oriented protective posture 4 configuration, and squad designated marksman. Appropriate doctrinal and training publications de-scribes how training will be conducted. Weapons qualification training will be conducted per the appropriate doctrinal or training publication for the particular weapon. (2)  Ensure range safety per AR 385  63. (3)  Training on simulators and sub caliber ranges is encouraged before qualification, but do not replace the requirements for live fire qualification. (4)  Alternate qualification courses may be used when a standard record fire range is not available. The engagement skills training (EST) 2000 will not be used as a substitution for small arms live fire qualification. (5)  Ammunition issued for training and qualification firing must be accounted for in accordance with AR 190  11 and AR 5  13. (6)  Individual qualification with weapons will be recorded on approved qualification scorecards, maintained in the ITR, recorded in DTMS and in military personnel records or DA Form 2  1 (Personnel Qualification Record) (see AR 600  8  104). Commanders conducting training will record weapons qualifications in DTMS and provide the custodian of personnel records with information on qualification firing so it can be included in the Personnel Qualification Records. (7)  Exemptions from weapons qualification are as follows: (a)  Army Medical Department personnel and non-MEDCOM personnel in medical units will train and qualify with individual small arms (pistols and rifles). These personnel are not required to train and qualify on crew-served weapons. However, MEDCOM personnel attending training at NCOES courses will receive weapons instruction that is part of the curriculum. This will ensure that successful completion of the course is not jeopardized by failure to attend the weapons training portion of the curriculum. (b)  Chaplains and individuals classified 1  A  O (conscientious objectors). (c)  Cadets at the USMA, except when directed by the Superintendent. (d)  Individuals in duty positions not assigned individual weapons. When available, Soldiers will participate in simulated marksmanship training (Laser marksmanship Training System and/or EST 2000) and successfully complete simulator based performance tests with individual weapons. Crew-served weapons training using simulation is highly encouraged. b.  Qualification with the individual weapon is a prerequisite for assignment to a hostile fire zone, except for Chaplains and individuals classified as conscientious objectors. Qualification must be completed before deployment to the hostile fire zone and within the time period established in DA Pam 350  38 for units to re-qualify. Soldiers who consistently fail to qualify with their assigned weapons are potentially subject to administrative actions and may be non-deployable. c.  Qualification badges will be awarded in accordance with AR 600  8  22. d.  Unit commanders will designate and train Soldiers to operate, as an additional duty, crew-served weapons for which crews are not identified in the authorization document (for example, .50 caliber and M240 machine guns). Qualification with crew-served weapons will be in accordance with applicable training literature for those weapons and in accordance with training strategies in DA Pam 350  38. The requirement for simulator training and simulator-based performance tests prior to live fire also applies to crew-served weapons. Unit commanders may tailor training to meet directed-mission requirements. e.  Because ammunition is limited, the firing of weapons for familiarization by personnel not designated or assigned the weapon is not authorized, unless the unit commander deems it mission essential and the firing can be accomplished within existing authorizations prescribed in DA Pam 350  38. Familiarization weapons training also can be accomplished using training devices such as the EST 2000 for all Soldiers. f.  Before completing IET, personnel not excused by proper authority will qualify on a standard record fire range with the standard type U.S. Army rifle or the weapon with which they will typically be assigned. g.  Participation in competitive marksmanship program and MWR Rod and Gun Club activities are encouraged to de-velop and improve skills (see AR 350  66 for additional details). F  8.  Army Permissive Parachuting and Training Program a.  The Army Permissive Parachuting and Training Program is for experienced Army Airborne qualified Soldiers as-signed to non-airborne duty positions. Approved permissive parachuting status may be authorized for Soldiers who have a need to perform static-line parachuting in conjunction with the performance of their current duties and/or have a desire to maintain their parachuting skills in preparation for future airborne assignments. To participate in the program, Soldiers must volunteer by submitting a request through command channels for the signature approval of a general officer at general court-martial convening authority level. Requests from general officers and promotable colonels are forwarded through the HQDA General Officer Management Office for action by the VCSA. b.  Approving authorities. (1)  ACOM/ASCC and DRU commanders; Unified & Special Command commanders; C,NGB and the CAR. Theater Army authority may be delegated to the first general officer in the command G3 for members of the Personnel Exchange Program, foreign area officers, and SON. (2)  Director of Defense Human Intelligence for qualified Army personnel assigned to its overseas locations. (3)  Superintendent, USMA for assigned Army personnel and airborne qualified Cadets undergoing Cadet Troop Leader Training. c.  Approving authorities may delegate approval authority to subordinate commanders that exercise general court-mar-tial convening authority. A copy of the delegation will be forwarded to DCS, G  1 (DAPE  MPE). d.  A copy of each permissive parachute approval will be forwarded to DCS, G  1 (DAPE  MPE) 300 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  0300. e.  The Permissive Parachuting and Training Program has no provisions for wavier of selection criteria or restrictions; however, approval authorities may forward favorable recommendations for exceptions to policy to DCS, G  1 (DAPE  MPE). f.  Prerequisites and restrictions: (1)  An eligible experienced static line parachutist must have completed airborne training and at least 36 cumulative months of parachuting duty in an airborne position. (2)  Enlisted Soldiers must possess SQI of P (Parachutist), S (Special Operations Support Personnel), or V (Ranger Parachutist), ASI 5W (Jumpmaster), or MOS 18 (Special Forces) (3)  Officers must have a skill identifier (SI) of either 5P (Parachutist), 5S (Ranger Parachutist), 5W (Jumpmaster, or an AOC of 18A (Special Forces). (4)  WOs must be either SQI P, ASI 5W, MOS 180A (Special Forces Warrant Officer), or MOS 921A (Airdrop System Technician). (5)  Must meet airborne physical qualifications in accordance with AR 40  501 chapter 5. (6)  Must have completed airborne refresher training course  conducted by a qualified and current U.S. (see FM 3  21.220) military jumpmaster within 30 days of planned parachute activity. If the course requires a parachute jump, permissive parachute status must be conditionally approved prior to attending refresher training. (7)  Permissive parachuting status will not be approved for longer than 6 months. Renewals for qualified personnel may be submitted in accordance with paragraph F8a. (8)  Parachuting with foreign forces must be done in conjunction with a directed mission or assigned duties. (9)  Permissive parachuting is not permitted if related to, or motivated by, personal reasons, or for recreational or cere-monial purposes. (10)  Personnel from other Services, foreign forces, civilians, or retired military are not eligible for this program. (11)  Permissive parachute duty is incidental to mission accomplishment and is at no cost to the government (parachute pay, TDY or temporary change of station). (12)  Permissive parachute jumps may be counted to meet requirements for senior or master parachutist ratings. (13)  No hazardous duty pay is authorized and no orders are published for permissive parachute jumping.   Appendix G Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training G  1.  Continental U.S. Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training Program a.  The objectives of the CONUS JA/ATT Program are to: (1)  Enhance readiness of Army forces through improved Joint Air Force and Army training. (2)  Practice strategic and tactical airlift planning, air loading, airdrops, air deployment, and assault air-land techniques and procedures. (3)  Improve the quality and quantity of airdrop (heavy equipment and personnel) techniques and assault air-land train-ing. (4)  Strengthen the Air Mobility Command Affiliation Program. b.  The following policy guidance pertains to Army involvement in JA/ATT missions: (1)  In planning, requesting, and conducting JA/ATT missions, all ACOMs, ASCCs, and HQDA agencies will comply with the policies contained in this regulation and appropriate Air Mobility Command guidance. (2)  The following missions are authorized in the CONUS JA/ATT Program: (a)  Airdrop personnel and cargo, to include basic airborne qualification jumps. (b)  Assault air-land operations. (c)  Static load training for units tasked to perform air transportability missions. (d)  Joint development or certification of new and modified equipment or operational procedures. (e)  Combat support training, examples of which include flare drops, leaflet drops, unconventional warfare activities, and Joint airborne communications and command post employments. (f)  Other missions as agreed to by the Air Mobility Command and the supported commander. (3)  The following missions are not authorized under the CONUS JA/ATT Program: (a)  Unilateral Army training using airlift primarily as a mode of transportation from one location to another. (b)  Point-to-point air transportation not involving airdrop, assault air-land, or air transportability training. (4)  Transportation of personnel and equipment to and from CTCs will be programmed and budgeted as a transportation requirement and not under the CONUS JA/ATT Program. Procedures for requesting a Special Assignment Airlift Mission for transportation purposes are in AR 59  9. (5)  Requests for commercial transportation will not be submitted unless all actions to obtain military airlift are termi-nated. c.  Army priorities for the CONUS JA/ATT Program, in conjunction with the Air Forces Air Mobility Command, are: (1)  Priority A  : Mission Critical. Joint Collective and Critical Individual Requirements. (a)  Individual Readiness Proficiency (Basic Airborne Course, Jumpmaster Course, U.S. Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School, and the Military Free-Fall Parachute Course (MFFPC)). (b)  Joint/Collective Readiness Training & Exercises, to include HQDA directed Emergency Deployment Readiness Exercises (EDRE). (2)  Priority B.  Mission Essential. (a)  Priority B1: Institutional Test & Evaluation (Army Airborne and Special Operations Test Dir). (b)  Priority B2: Mission Module (C1/C2 targeted readiness levels). 1.  U.S. Army Special Operations Command. 2.  Units designated or training as GRF. 3.  Airborne units in the Mission Module (usually PTDO C1/C2 targeted readiness levels). (c)  Priority B3: Units in Prepare Module (C3/C4 targeted readiness levels). 1.  Test and Evaluation missions in support of long range acquisition strategy. 2.  Air load and deployment training. (3)  Priority C.  Mission Enhancement. (a)  CTC observers/controllers. (b)  Early Entry Force in support of GRF training. (4)  Priority D  : Demonstrations - air shows, sports events, Army parachute team. d.  ACOMs, ASCC, and DRUs will implement these policies within their regulations. Further, ACOMs and ASCCs will establish procedures by which JA/ATT programs will operate in accordance with U.S. Air Force Air Mobility Command. Additionally, Air Mobility Commands procedures have precedence during crisis situations. G  2.  Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training requirements and requests a.  All JA/ATT missions will maximize training for both Army forces and mobility aircrews. Requirements must be verified by the FORSCOM representative/validator prior to the bi-monthly Headquarters, Air Mobility Command JA/ ATT validation period. This online process allows users to submit requirements for airlift support, request mobility mission support, and coordinate mission details. With six validation periods per year, the online process usually occurs approxi-mately 50 days prior the first day of the next two months during which the mission will take place. b.  The JA/ATT requests are filed via the JA/ATT website: https://jaatt.amc.af.mil/. Computers on military domains and CAC are required for access. For individual accounts access, log on the website. Unit airlift scheduling representatives will be assigned appropriate website permissions to submit JA/ATT mission requests. Detailed instructions on the valida-tion process and Website functions can be found on the website links & downloads section. Missions submitted to the website that will occur in a previously validated month are considered add-on missions. The requesting airlift user must provide justification and coordination references with the supporting flying wing, contingency response element, or special tactics team, as applicable. Changes to approved JA/ATT missions can be requested through the website at any time prior to the mission start date. Coordination with 618th Tanker Airlift Control Command (TACC) / XOBC, the supporting flying wing, contingency response element, or special tactics team, as applicable, is required. G  3.  Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training workshops a.  The 618th TACC/XOBC will schedule and oversee the bi-monthly JA/ATT validation period. b.  Users submit requirements using the JA/ATT Website at a specified time prior to the validation period. The FORSCOM representative/validator performs initial reviews of Army requirements to verify accuracy of information and that minimum criteria are met to be considered a JA/ATT mission. Successful reviews result in JA/ATT requirements posted on the Website where flying wings can view and allocated airlift assets for support. Requesting users are also encouraged solicit support by direct contact with flying wing schedulers. Once flying wing and mission support are ob-tained, mission details must be thoroughly coordinated prior to airlift headquarters review. Upon successful review, the 618th TACC/XOBC will issue a JA/ATT sequence number with authorization to operate the mission. The originating user serves as the focal point for all coordination details and is ultimately responsible for all management aspects of a JA/ATT mission prior to and after validation. c.  Air Mobility Command has ultimate oversight of the JA/ATT Program, as the program is funded from its training operation authorizations and provides overall planning and execution guidance for JA/ATT missions conducted by Air Mobility Command and Air Mobility Command-gained CONUS-based airlift aircraft and crews. At the completion of every JA/ATT validation period, all approved JA/ATT mission taskings will be posted on the JA/ATT web page. G  4.  Air Mobility Command Affiliation Program a.  This program matches numbered air forces with Army corps, division, and non-divisional units, worldwide. An affiliation relationship between an Air Mobility Command unit and a designated Army unit results in improved Joint training opportunities. The mission, size, attrition rate, combat readiness, and contingency commitments of affiliated units dictate the frequency of training. b.  The affiliation and JA/ATT programs are separate but complementary. Most affiliation training activities will take place in conjunction with scheduled JA/ATT missions.   Appendix H Constructive or Equivalent Course Credit for Officers and Army Civilians H  1.  Course credit policy The policy for granting constructive or equivalent course credit is stated in paragraph 20 of chapter 3. The tables in this appendix identify the type of credit applicable to OES and CES courses and provides details concerning eligibility and processing of applications for course credit. H  2.  Course credit tables Table I  1 applies to all Officer Personnel Management Directorate-managed RA commissioned officers. Table H-2 applies to chaplains; table H-3 applies to Medical Corps officers; table H-4 applies to JAGC officers and table H-5 applies to the Army Civilian Corps.  Table H  1 Constructive or equivalent course credit for Officer Personnel Management Directorate-managed Regular Army commissioned officers  Continued  School/Course   Type Credit (MEL award)   Eligibility   Application Submit-ted   Forward to:   Special Instructions   CCC (Phase I)   Constructive (MEL 6)   Complete more than 8 years AFCS   By: Individual of-ficer or career management divi-sion   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC (ap-propriate career mgmt division (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG of-ficers)   Officer must qualify by length of service, field experience, or demonstrated ability.      Equivalent (MEL 6)   All officers   School comman-dant   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   Instructor duty is in-sufficient reason to award equivalency. Officer must com-plete all require-ments of course. Commandant may waive requirements for subject matter area in which officer instructs. Comman-dant must first certify equivalent knowledge.   ILE   Constructive (MEL 4)   Officers in grade of O  4 or O  5 com-plete officer ad-vanced course (OAC) or CCC and more than 15 years AFCS   Individual officer or career manage-ment division   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   None.      Equivalent (MEL 4)      College comman-dant   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   Officers completing equated foreign mili-tary schools will nor-mally be granted credit. Instructor duty is insufficient reason. Officer must complete all require-ments expected of course graduates. Commandant may waive requirements or subject matter area in which officer instructs. Comman-dant must first certify  Table H  1 Constructive or equivalent course credit for Officer Personnel Management Directorate-managed Regular Army commissioned officers  Continued  equivalent knowledge.   WOILE   Constructive (MEL Q)   Officers in grade of CW3 or CW4 com-pleted ILE (MEL 4)   Individual officer or career manage-ment division   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   None   SSC   Constructive (MEL 1)   Officers in grade of O  5 or O  6 com-plete ILE and more than 23 years AFCS   Individual officer or career manage-ment division   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   None.      Equivalent (MEL 1)      College comman-dant   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   None.     Table H  2 Constructive or equivalent course credit for chaplains  Continued  School/Course   Type Credit (MEL award)   Eligibility   Submits Applica-tion   Forward to:   Special Instructions   CCC (Phase I)   Constructive (MEL 6)   Complete more than 8 years AFCS   Individual chaplain or career manage-ment division   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   Officer must qualify by length of service, field experience, or demonstrated ability.   ILE   Constructive (MEL 4)   Chaplains in grade of O  4 or O  5, complete OAC or CCC and more than 15 years AFCS   Individual officer or career manage-ment division   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   Officer must qualify by length of service, field experience, or demonstrated ability.   SSC   Constructive (MEL 1)   Officers in grade of O  5 or O  6, com-plete ILE and more than 23 years of AFCS   Individual officer or career manage-ment division   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   Officer must qualify by length of service, field experience, or demonstrated ability.      Table H  3 Constructive or equivalent course credit for AMEDD (MC, DC, VC, AN, MSSP) officers  Continued  School/Course   Type Credit (MEL award)   Eligibility   Submits Applica-tion   Forward to:   Special Instructions   Officer basic course (OBC)/BOLC  B   Constructive (MEL 7)   Prior attendance at non-MEDCOM OBC or at least 1 year of MEDCOM AFCS in a capacity other than first year graduate medical education   Individual officer or Medical Corps ca-reer activities   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   Officer must demon-strate distinguished duty or service that includes the com-mon subject matter of the OBC. Letter of application must state specific rea-sons why applicant did not complete the course in residence or by DL.   CCC (Phase 1)   Constructive (MEL 6)   Prior attendance at non-MEDCOM OAC or CCC and at least 6 years of MEDCOM AFCS at least 3 of which were in a capacity other than an edu-cation program   Individual officer   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   Officer must demon-strate distinguished duty or service that includes the com-mon subject matter of the OAC or CCC. Letter of application must state specific reasons why appli-cant did not com-plete the course in residence or by DL.   ILE   Constructive (MEL 4)   Credit for OAC or CCC and at least 9 years MEDCOM AFCS at least 5 of which were in a ca-pacity other than an educational pro-gram. Credit for OAC or CCC and must be beyond el-igibility for resident course attendance (15 years AFCS) or enrollment in DL course (18 years AFCS)   Individual officer   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   Officer must have an outstanding perfor-mance record indi-cating a diversity of assignments includ-ing at least one MEDCOM command or key staff assign-ment. Officer must clearly demonstrate general understand-ing of the common subject areas of the CGSOC. Addition-ally, letter of applica-tion must provide satisfactory justifica-tion why CGSOC nonresident (DL) in-struction was not completed during the eligibility period.     Table H  4 Constructive or equivalent course credit for Judge Advocate General Corps officers  Continued  School/course   Type credit (MEL award)   Eligibility   Submits applica-tion   Forward to:   Special Instructions   Graduate course   Constructive (MEL 6)   Officers complete more than 8 years AFCS   Individual officer or career manage-ment division   TJAG (DAJA  PT)   Must qualify by length of service, field experience, or demonstrated ability.      Equivalent (MEL 6)   All officers   Dean   TJAG (DAJA  PT)   Instructor duty is in-sufficient reason. Of-ficer must complete all requirements ex-pected of course graduates. Dean may waive require-ments for subject  Table H  4 Constructive or equivalent course credit for Judge Advocate General Corps officers  Continued  matter area in which officer instructs. Dean must first cer-tify equivalent knowledge.   ILE   Constructive (MEL 4)   Officers in grade of O  4 or O  5, com-plete officer gradu-ate course   Individual officer or career manage-ment division   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   None.      Equivalent (MEL 4)      School comman-dant   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   Instructor duty is in-sufficient reason. Of-ficer must complete all requirements ex-pected of course graduates. Com-mandant may waive requirements for subject matter area in which officer in-structs. Comman-dant must first certify equivalent knowledge.   SSC   Constructive (MEL 1)   Officers in grade of O  5 or O  6, com-plete ILE, more than 23 AFCS   Individual officer or career manage-ment division   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   None.      Equivalent (MEL 1)   Officers in grade of O  5 or O  6, and complete ILE   College comman-dant   DCS, G  3/5/7 through Com-mander, HRC, ATTN: appropriate career mgmt divi-sion (RA and USAR officers) or NGB (ARNG offic-ers)   None.     Table H  5 Constructive or equivalent course credit for Army Civilian Corps  Continued  School/course   Eligible   Required   Prerequisite   Equivalent credit   Foundation Course   All Army Civilian em-ployees   Required for all Army Civilians employed af-ter 30 September  2016      ILDC      Military, foreign nation-als, and other DOD employees            Basic Course   Army Civilians in per-manent appointments   Required for Army Ci-vilians in permanent appointment to GS05  GS09; Com-plete within 1 year of appointment   Foundation Course if required and Basic Course DL   Leadership, Education and Development, OBC/BOLC, WOAC, Advanced Noncom-missioned Officers Course SLC   Table H  5 Constructive or equivalent course credit for Army Civilian Corps  Continued     Military, foreign nation-als, and other DOD employees            Intermediate Course   Army Civilians in per-manent appointments   Required for Army Ci-vilians in permanent appointment to GS  10  GS  12 or equivalent; Complete within 1 year of ap-pointment   Foundation Course if required and Interme-diate Course DL   OLE, CCC, WOILE, FSC      Military, foreign nation-als, and other DOD employees            Advanced Course   Army Civilians in per-manent appointments   Required for Army Ci-vilians in permanent appointment to GS  13  GS  15; Com-plete within 1 year of appointment   Foundation Course if required and Advanced Course DL   AMSC, SBLM, CGSOC/ILE, WOSSE, SMC      Military, foreign nation-als, and other DOD employees            Continuing Education for Senior Leaders   Army Civilians with permanent appoint-ment.   Open to Army civilians in permanent appoint-ment to GS14/15   Advanced Course or SSC   NONE     Military, foreign Nation-als and other DOD em-ployees          Note: 1 Equivalent credit for Army military and Civilian courses is applied through auto-determination via the CES registration system. Additional documentation is not provided. Credit for course work outside the Army (university, DOD or Government courses), or supervisory experience is requested through the con-structive credit process identified in chapter 3, paragraph 12.   Appendix I List of Reimbursable New Equipment Training Support and Services I  1.  Automated data processing support a.  Equipment. b.  Maintenance. I  2.  Army modernization training automation system a.  Contract support. b.  Hardware and software. c.  Training. I  3.  Test support training a.  Test support packages. b.  Follow-on test and evaluation. c.  Initial operation test and evaluation. I  4.  New equipment training related instruction a.  Instructor and key personnel training. b.  Staff planners course. c.  NET team instruction. d.  New materiel introductory briefings. e.  Logistics assistance representative training. f.  New materiel operations and maintenance training. g.  Technical orientation training. I  5.  Army Civilian support a.  Salaries. b.  Travel and per diem. I  6.  New equipment training team support a.  Salaries (Army Civilian and contractor). b.  Travel and per diem. I  7.  Contractor support a.  Salaries. b.  Travel and per diem.   Appendix J Internal Control Evaluation J  1.  Function The function of this evaluation is to ensure effective implementation of Army training. J  2.  Purpose The purpose of this evaluation is to provide feedback to unit commanders regarding compliance with the training and reporting procedures specified in this regulation. J  3.  Instructions Answers must be based upon actual testing of key internal controls such as document analysis, direct observation, inter-views, sampling, and simulation. Answers that indicate deficiencies must be explained and corrective action indicated in supporting documentation. These internal controls must be evaluated annually and each time a Command Inspection Pro-gram occurs. Certification that this evaluation has been conducted must be accomplished on DA Form 11  2 (Internal Control Evaluation Certification). J  4.  Test questions a.  Are units conducting and recording the completion of HQDA mandatory training requirements as prescribed in pro-ponent regulations in the individual training record in DTMS; or elsewhere (see app F)? b.  Are units conducting and recording the completion of command directed training (ACOM, ASCC, DRU or below commands) in the individual training record in DTMS; or elsewhere? c.  Are units managing their unit METs within DTMS using the T/T-/P/P-/U assessment process within DTMS? d.  Are units recording individual and crew-served weapon qualifications and collective live-fire proficiency within DTMS? e.  Are units developing unit training plans and conducting unit training management IAW AR 350  1, FM 7  0 and ATMS? f.  Additionally, the following proponent regulations contain internal controls related to HQDA mandatory training top-ics identified in this regulation: AR 600  20 for SHARP training; AR 600  63 for Suicide Prevention Program; AR 525  28 for PR; AR 381  12 for Threat Awareness & Reporting Program; and AR 525  13 for AT training. J  5.  Supersession Not applicable. J  6.  Comments Help make this a better tool for evaluating internal controls. Submit comments to the DCS, G  3/5/7, 450 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310  0450.   Glossary Section I Abbreviations AAC Army Acquisition Corps AAW Army Acquisition Workforce ACES Army Continuing Education System ACOM Army command ACP Army Campaign Plan ACSIM Assistant Chief of Staff for Installation Management ACTEDS Army Civilian Training, Education, and Development System ADT active duty for training AFCS active federal commissioned service AGR Active Guard Reserve AIT advanced individual training AKO Army Knowledge Online ALC Advanced Leaders Course ALCMC Army Learning Content Management Capability ALDP Army Leader Development Program AMC U.S. Army Materiel Command AMEDD Army Medical Department AMSP Advanced Military Studies Program AMT Army modernization training AOC area of concentration AOR area of responsibility APFT Army physical fitness test APT Army Personnel Test ARNG Army National Guard ARPRINT Army Program for Individual Training ARSOF Army Special Operations Forces ARSTRAT Army Strategic Command ASA (ALT) Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology) ASA (IE&E) Assistant Secretary of the Army (Installations, Energy and Environment) ASA (M&RA) Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) ASCC Army service component command ASI additional skill identifier AT antiterrorism ATMS Army Training Management System ATN Army Training Network ATRRS Army Training Requirements and Resources System ATSC Army Training Support Center AWT Army warrior training BASOPS base operations support BCT brigade combat team BLC Basic Leader Course BOLC Basic Officer Leader Course C3 cross-cultural competence CAC Combined Arms Center CAD course administrative data CAPDEV capability developer CAR Chief, Army Reserve CATS combined arms training strategy CBRN chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear CCC Captains Career Course CCDR combatant commander CES Civilian Education System CESL Continuing Education for Senior Leaders CFR Code of Federal Regulations CG commanding general CGSOC Command and General Staff Officer Course CHRTAS Civilian Human Resources Training Application System CIO/G  6 chief information officer CJCS Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff CJCSI Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction CJCSM Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual COC council of colonels CONUS continental United States CS 0-chlorobenzyl denemalononitrite CSA Chief of Staff, Army CSL centralized selection list CSLMO Civilian Service Leader Management Office CSM command sergeant major CTC Combat Training Center CVSP Cardiovascular Screening Program DA Department of the Army DARNG Director, Army National Guard DCG deputy commanding general DCPDS Defense Civilian Personnel Data System DCS Deputy Chief of Staff DEP distance education program DET displaced equipment training DL distributed learning DLIFLC Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center DLPT Defense language proficiency test DLS Distributed Learning System DOD Department of Defense DODD Department of Defense Directive DODI Department of Defense Instruction DOTMLPF  P doctrine, organizations, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities and policy DRRS  A Defense Readiness Reporting System - Army DRU direct reporting unit DSLDP Defense Senior Leader Development Program DTF digital training facility DTMS Digital Training Management System DTT doctrine and tactics training EDP executive development plan EPMS Enlisted Personnel Management System ESL English as a second language EST engagement skills training EW electronic warfare EXEVAL external evaluation FA functional area FM field manual FORSCOM Forces Command FUE first unit equipped GAT global assessment tool GMD ground-based midcourse defense GRF global response force GS general schedule HQ headquarters HQDA Headquarters, Department of the Army HRC Human Resources Command HSI Human System Integration HUMINT human intelligence IBCT infantry brigade combat team IDP individual development plan IDT inactive duty training IED improvised explosive device IET initial entry training IKPT instructor and key personnel training ILE intermediate level education ILP individual learning plan IMCOM U.S. Army Installation Management Command IMT initial military training INSCOM U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command IRR individual ready reserve IT information technology ITAM integrated training area management ITDLM Institutional Training Directed Lodging and Meals Program ITE integrated training environment ITR individual training record ITRO Inter-service Training Review Organization JA/ATT Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training Program JAGC Judge Advocate Generals Corps JCIDS Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System JCS Joint Chiefs of Staff JFC Joint force commander JMRC Joint Multi-national Readiness Center JPME Joint professional military education JPMRC Joint Pacific Multinational Readiness Capability JPRA Joint Personnel Recovery Agency JPRC Joint Personnel Recovery Center JRTC Joint Readiness Training Center KPP key performance parameter LAR logistics assistance representative LIC language identification code LVC live, virtual, constructive MATDEV materiel developer MC mission command MCA military construction, Army MCTP Mission Command Training Program MCTSP Mission Command Training Support Program MEDCOM U.S. Army Medical Command MEL military education level MER mission essential requirement MET mission essential task METL mission essential task list MFE maneuver, fires and effects MILCON military construction MOS military occupational specialty MRT Master Resilience Trainer MTC mission training complex MTOE modified table of organization and equipment MTT mobile training team MWR morale, welfare, and recreation NAF nonappropriated funds NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization NCO noncommissioned officer NCOA Noncommissioned Officer Academy NCOES Noncommissioned Officer Education System NCOPDP Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development Program NDCC National Defense Cadet Corps NET new equipment training NETP new equipment training plan NETT new equipment training team NGB National Guard Bureau NMIB new materiel introduction briefing NTC National Training Center OAC Officer Advanced Course OASS One Army School System OBC Officer Basic Course OCONUS outside the continental United States OCS Officer Candidate School ODT overseas deployment training OE operational environment OES Officer Education System OMA operations and maintenance, Army OML order of merit list OPFOR opposing force OPM Office of Personnel Management OPTEMPO operational tempo OSD Office of the Secretary of Defense OSUT one station unit training OTJAG Office of The Judge Advocate General PCC pre-command course PCS permanent change of station PD program director PEG program evaluation group PEO program executive office PHC Public Health Center PM program manager PME professional military education PMG Provost Marshal General PMR program management review POI program of instruction POM program objective memorandum PPBE planning, programming, budgeting, and execution PPPT pregnancy/post-partum physical training PR personnel recovery PRCC personnel recovery coordination cell PRT physical readiness training QA quality assurance QAE quality assurance evaluator QAO quality assurance office RC reserve component RM risk management ROTC Reserve Officers Training Corps SCP School for Command Preparation SECARMY Secretary of the Army SERE survival, evasion, resistance, and escape SES senior executive service SETM Senior Enterprise Talent Management SHARP Sexual Harassment/Assault Response & Prevention SI skill identifier SLC Senior Leaders Course SMC Sergeants Major Course SMDR structure and manning decision review SON schools of other nations SQI special qualification identifier SRM sustainment, restoration, and modernization SRP Sustainable Range Program SSC senior service college STP Soldier training publication STRAC Standards in Training Commission STRAP system training plan STRI simulation, training and instrumentation STSP Soldier Training Support Program TACITS Total Army Centralized Individual Training Solicitation TADLP The Army Distributed Learning Program TADSS Training Aids, Devices, Simulators and Simulations TASS The Army School System TATS Total Army Training System TB technical bulletin TCCW Training Coordination Council Workshop TCM TRADOC capabilities manager TDA table of distribution and allowance TDY temporary duty TGOSC Training General Officer Steering Committee TJAG The Judge Advocate General TNGDEV training developer TPU troop program unit TRADOC U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command TRAP Training Resources Arbitration Panel TRAS Training Requirements Analysis System TSC training support center TSG The Surgeon General TSP training support package TSS Training Support System TSWG training support working group USAASC U.S. Army Acquisition Support Center USACE U.S. Army Corps of Engineers USACS U.S. Army Combatives School USAF U.S. Air Force USAIS U.S. Army Infantry School USAR U.S. Army Reserve USARC U.S. Army Reserve Command USARCENT U.S. Army Central Command USAREUR U.S. Army Europe USARNORTH U.S. Army North USARPAC U.S. Army Pacific USARSO U.S. Army South USASMA U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy USASMDC/ARSTRAT U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command / Army Forces Strategic Command USASOC U.S. Army Special Operations Command USAWC U.S. Army War College USAWOCC U.S. Army Warrant Officer Career College USC United States Code USF unit set fielding USMA U.S. Military Academy USMC U.S. Marine Corps USN U.S. Navy USSTRATCOM U.S. Strategic Command VCSA Vice Chief of Staff of the Army WG working group WO warrant officer WOAC Warrant Officer Advanced Course WOBC Warrant Officer Basic Course WOCS Warrant Officer Candidate School WOILE Warrant Officer Intermediate Level Education WOSSE Warrant Officer Senior Service Education WTBD warrior tasks and battle drills Section II Terms Academic Degree A post-secondary education including an associates, a bachelors, a masters, or a doctoral degree or a specialist degree resulting in a distinct education (that is, not a certificate program). Institutions granting this type of education must meet standards and accreditation criteria from an entity recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Courses may be class-room-based, web-based or a blend of both (see DODI 1400.25  V410). Academic Degree Training Training or education with the stated objective of obtaining a degree from a college or university that is accredited by a regional, national, or international accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, and listed in its Database of Accredited Post-Secondary Institutions and Programs. The academic degree MUST be related to the perfor-mance of the employee's official duties; part of a planned, systematic and coordinated program of professional develop-ment; endorsed by the Army; and support organizational goals with results that are measurable in terms of individual and organizational performance (see AR 350  1). Accreditation A disciplined approach to ensuring standardization across the Army in ensuring that training institutions meet accepted standards, and are in accordance with higher headquarters guidance. It is the result of an evaluative process that certifies an institution meets the required percentage of TRADOC Accreditation standards with a focus on quality currency and relevant training and education that meets the needs of the Army. (AR 350  1). It is also the voluntary process of evaluating institutions or programs to guarantee acceptable levels of quality, including recognition by the U.S. Secretary of Education (see DODI 1400.25  V410). Active duty for training A tour of ADT for RC Soldiers. The Soldier must be on orders to return to non-active duty status when the training period is completed. Active Guard Reserve Active Guard Reserve Soldiers serve on full-time military duty in support of the Reserve components. 10 USC personnel are available for world-wide assignment, whereas 32 USC personnel must remain within the confines of the state bound-aries. This program will remain a vital part of the RC. Activity Career Program Manager Functional Career Program (CP) experts who provide technical advice and assistance to the commander; and Civilian Personnel Advisory Center (CPAC) Civilian Personnel Operations Center (CPOC); and serve as a resource to supervisors in furnishing CP information to civilian careerists and interns (see AR 690  950). Additional skill identifier Code added to a Soldiers MOS which identifies a specialized skill that is closely related to, and an addition to, those required by a Soldiers MOS. Administrative control Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or other organizations in respect to administration and support (see ADRP 1  02). Includes: organization of Service forces, control of resources and equipment, personnel management, unit logistics, individual and unit training, readiness, mobilization, demobilization, discipline, and other matters not included in the operational missions of the subordinate or other organizations. Advanced individual training Training given to enlisted personnel subsequent to completion of basic training, so as to render them qualified for award of an MOS. Also, training conducted at training centers, at Army service schools, and, when so directed, by U.S. Strategic Army force units which qualifies an individual to perform in an entry or higher MOS. Advanced technology demonstrations Demonstrations conducted in an operational versus laboratory environment used to conduct risk reducing, proof of princi-pal tests for future battlefield system improvements. Typically, technology developers, MATDEVs, and Army operational users evaluate potential technology improvements and performance specifications aimed at developing exit criteria for future battlefield system improvements. Affirmative Employment Program A federal agency designed structure for effective management, accountability and self-analysis which will ensure program success and compliance with EEOC MD  715. (Available at https://www.eeoc.gov/federal/directives/715instruct/sec-tion1.html.) After action review A guided analysis of an organizations performance, conducted at appropriate times during and at the conclusion of a training event or operation with the objective of improving future performance. It includes a facilitator, event participants, and other observers. Also called AAR (see ADRP 7  0 and FM 7  0). AG  1/CP, Assistant G  1 for Civilian Personnel (AG  1 (CP) Headquarters Army, G  1 staff element responsible for setting long-range, strategic direction and policy governing the management and using of Army Civilian employees. (Available at https://www.g1intranet.army.mil/cp.asp.) Analysis of change cell The process addressing issues, impacting training in the budget and execution years too expansive to address in a TRAP or the SMDR. Annual training The minimum period of annual ADT or annual field training a member performs each year to satisfy the annual training requirement associated with a Reserve Component assignment. It may be performed during one consecutive period or in increments of one or more days, depending upon mission requirements. Army Career Tracker ACT is a single aggregated source for assignment history, experience, skills, education, civilian acquired skills, interests and extended relationships. As a leader development tool, it integrates data on training, education, and experiential learning from a number of source systems into one personalized and easy to use interface, provides users a more efficient and effective way to monitor their career development, allows supervisors to track and advise employees on their leadership development and career program managers the ability to reach their geographically dispersed careerists. ACT is the Armys authoritative source for the Individual Development Plan (IDP). (DCS, G37/TRV) The Army's leader development tool that integrates training, education and experiential learning into one personalized and easy-to-use interface. ACT provides users with a more efficient and effective way to monitor their career development while allowing leaders to track and advise subordinates on personalized leadership development. (DCS, G  3/5/7 (Training and Leader Development) Army Centralized Individual Training Solicitation The process by which DOD agencies, the total Army, other services, foreign military, and Army Civilian agencies are requested to submit their individual training requirements by fiscal year for input into the ATRRS (see AR 350  1). Army Civilian Training Education and Development System Funded Training Commonly referred to as Army Central Training Funds, these funds, managed by DCS, G  3/5/7 (G  37/TRV), supports leader development and functional training designed to build a competent Civilian workforce (see AR 350  1). Army Civilian Training, Education and Development System A requirements-based system that ensures planned development of civilians through a blending of progressive and sequen-tial work assignments, formal training, educational courses, and self-development for individuals as they progress from entry level to key positions. ACTEDS provides an orderly, systemic approach to technical, professional, and leadership training, education, and development similar to the military system. ACTEDS is applicable to all civilian occupations covered by CPs and career fields alike (see AR 690  950). Army Civilian Training, Education and Development System Plans Information about career management training, education, and development by the CP FCs and personnel proponents. The plans provide specific guidance on Army-wide training, education, and development requirements from the intern or trainee to the executive level. These requirements are based on the results of job analyses, which identify the competencies (knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA)) that individuals need to do their jobs. In addition to formal training, each ACTEDS plan recommends developmental assignments to broaden careerists' perspectives and to expand the depth and breadth of knowledge needed for movement into higher level positions. These assignments may be in other specialty areas, in related occupations, at different organizational levels, or at different geographical sites. The determination of additional individual or mission training, education, and development needs is the responsibility of the commanders (see AR 690  950). Army Collective Task List The Army Collective Task List consists of the total list of collective within the Army and from which mission essential tasks and supporting collective tasks are derived in order to develop METL for Army units. Army Continuing Education System Integrated system of voluntary and self-development educational opportunities. Army correspondence course A formal, non-digital, centrally managed series of self-study, self-paced instructional materials, identified by a common course title and course number; and administered to nonresident students. A course may include phases, but usually consists of subcourses (modules) presented in a logical, progressive sequence, directed toward specific training objectives. Army Correspondence Course Program Overall program governing Army correspondence courses (see Army Institute for Professional Development). The MEDCOM and JAGC correspondence course extension programs are separate programs not under the Army Institute for Professional Development. Army Leader Development Program CG, TRADOC led activity which executes Army leader development. The ALDP is the Army program for managing HQDA-approved leader development initiatives. The Army Leader Development Program is the sole management process for program execution, approval, and incorporation of new initiatives, and recommendations for prioritization of resources. (DA Pam 350  58) Army Learning Center Facilities providing education and training support services under the direction of the installation Army Education Center. Army modernization training Required training to support Army modernization, includes new equipment training, displaced equipment training, doctrine and tactics training, and sustainment training. Modernization training ensures the skill proficiency required to effectively and efficiently take proper advantage of the new capability. Army National Guard The Army portion of the organized militia of the several States, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Co-lumbia whose units and members are federally recognized. Army National Guard of the United States A reserve component of the Army, all of whose members are members of the ARNG. Army Program for Individual Training A mission, planning, and resourcing document produced by ATRRS that identifies by fiscal year projected individual training requirements for established courses and for skills where new courses are necessary. Army Training Management System ATMS is a Armywide (RA/RC), integrated, training management enterprise system that incorporates the DTMS, Army Training Network, and CATS development tool to provide units and institutions the capability to plan, prepare, execute, assess, manage and report training. Army Training Requirements and Resources System The Department of the Armys major online information system for support of institutional training missions during peace-time, partial or full mobilization, and subsequent reduction to the training base consisting of a centralized training man-agement database with interactive terminals supporting: The HQDA, HRC and its RC counterparts; Army schools and training centers; and others service or government agency schools and training centers. Armywide doctrinal and training literature Publications that are DA numbered, indexed, and published. Products included are: field manuals, training circulars, CATS, Army Training Network, Soldier training publications, non-equipment training manuals, selected DA pamphlets (see 350 and 351 series), and posters. Assessment The process for determining the current or projected training proficiency status of units, leaders and Soldiers and for identifying how to improve training proficiency, education/training products and the training process. It involves evaluat-ing training and training support, providing feedback, conducting training assessments, conducting organizational assess-ments and taking corrective action to improve future training. Assistance visit A visit to an organization by a person or team having expertise in a particular area to help the organization identify its strengths and weaknesses and to make recommendations for improvement. Within the TRADOC Quality Assurance Pro-gram, an assistance visit is a visit to a training or education institution by a person or team representing the accrediting agency to assess the institutions strengths and weaknesses in terms of the Armys Accreditation Standards and to make recommendations for improvement. Authorization, Agreement and Certification of Training (SF 182) OPM approve form used to request, approve, authorize, certify and/or document training instances, regardless of the fund-ing source (see AR 350  1). Basic combat training Training in basic military subjects and fundamental skills used in combat, given to newly inducted and enlisted AC and RC personnel without prior military service, or service members with greater than a three year break in service. Blended learning A blended approach combines DL with some form of in-residence program. The in-residence phase or phases are typically at an institution, but can be conducted at satellite facilities. Capability developer A person who is involved in analyzing, determining, prioritizing, and documenting requirements for doctrine, organiza-tions, training, leader development and education, materiel and materiel-centric DOTMLPF  P requirements, and person-nel, facilities and policy implications within the context of the force development process. Also responsible for represent-ing the end user during the full development and life cycle process and ensures all enabling capabilities are known, afford-able, budgeted, and aligned for synchronous fielding and support. The CAPDEV is the command or agency that formulates warfighting requirements for DOTLMPF  P. The acronym CAPDEV may be used generically to represent the user and user maintainer community role in the materiel acquisition process (counterpart to generic use of MATDEV). See AR 70  1. Career Development A method of obtaining additional knowledge, skills and abilities within a Career Program through training, assignment or self-development (see AR 690  950) . Career Development Program Structured plans, processes, and activities directing and supporting the systematic organizational, occupational, and indi-vidual growth of employees in designated Career Programs. It entails progression through a series of training, education and professional development programs and assignments involving broader knowledge, improved skills, and/or greater responsibility (see DODI 1400.25  V410) . Career field Includes career program positions (professional and administrative) and functionally related clerical and technical posi-tions which are grouped together for life cycle management purposes. Career management The assessment and execution of the mission based development of employees throughout the life-cycle from recruitment through separation. (AG  1CP) Career program Specified occupational series and functional fields group together on the basis of population, occupational structure, grade range, and commonality of job and qualification characteristics. Career program Occupational series aligned into consolidated groupings based on common technical functions, associated command mis-sions, and position knowledge, skills and abilities. Career program manager The Functional Chief Representative (FCR) counterpart at the Army Command. Advises Command Headquarters and field activities on career management from a functional perspective. Appointed by the Command and endorsed by the FCR (see AR 690  950). Career Program Policy Committee A continuing, intra-component, Army-level committee that : (a) Develops recommendations for changes in Army Career Program policies and procedures. (b) Prepares recommendations for the AG  1(CP) to determine ACTEDS resource allocations for Interns and Fellows and to the DCS, G  3/5/7 for Competitive Professional Development. (c) Makes determination on recommendations from any subcommittee operating within mission of the CPPC. (d) Makes determinations and develops solutions to enterprise-level issues and develops practices appropriate for Armywide execution. Career Program Population All Army Civilian employees aligned to a Functional Community/Career Program are included (Appropriated Fund (AF), NAF, Direct Hire Foreign Nationals (DHFN) and Wage Grade populations). Excluded from the Army, CP populations are National Guard Technicians, and also Indirect-hire Foreign National employees of their states and host nations, respec-tively. (AG  1 CP)) Certification Individual Soldiers & Civilians: Certifications are formal procedures or official designations that attest in writing, to a Soldier or Army Civilians possession of certain attributes, characteristics, quality, qualification, or status in accordance with established requirements or standards. Confirmation of a certification is often provided by some form of external review, education, assessment, exam, or audit. It is also the recognition or credential given to individuals who have met predetermined qualifications set by an agency of government, industry, or a profession (see DODI 1400.25  V410). Civilian Education System CES is the foundation of the Army's leader development program for all Army Civilians, providing progressive and se-quential education course opportunities that employees can take throughout their career. It is centrally funded by DCS, G  37/(Training Directorate) for most permanent Army Civilians, including but not limited to general schedule (GS), NAF, local national (LN) and wage grade employees. CES leadership courses, or designated equivalent courses, are required for all Army Civilians. Employees should include attendance at the CES course for which they are eligible in their Individual Development Plans (IDP). More information on CES courses, as well as instructions on how to enroll can be found on the Civilian Training and Leader Development website at http://www.t3ac.army.mil/pages/homepage.aspx. Civilian Human Resources Agency Organization within the Army G  1, responsible for providing Department of the Army Civilian Human Resources opera-tions support (CHRA oversees the operations of the Civilian Personnel Advisory Centers). (http://www.chra.army.mil/global/aboutus.asp) Civilian Senior Leader Management Office The HQDA Staff Office that advises the SECARMY and other senior leaders on all matters relating to the recruitment, utilization, and life cycle management of the Executive and Senior Professional (ESP) civilian workforce. Also serves as the executive secretary to, and provides administrative support for the SECARMYs Executive Resources Board (ERB). (Available at http://www.asamra.army.mil/org_cslmo_bio.cfm.) Collective training Training either in institutions or units that prepares cohesive teams and units to accomplish their missions in decisive actions. Command directed training Any other task (vs HQDA Mandatory Training) directed by a commander in a given chain of command. Unit level indi-vidual, leader and collective tasks for which the commander determines additional training is required in order to be pro-ficient against the unit METL; or other document such as the HQDA recognized FORSCOM Pre-Deployment Training Requirement supporting CCDRs. Common core The combination of common military tasks, common leader, and directed or mandated tasks for specific courses, grade levels, or organizational levels regardless of branch or career management field or program. Competency An observable, measurable pattern of knowledge, abilities, skills, and other 2538 characteristics that individuals need to perform work roles or occupational functions 2539 successfully (AG  CP1). Competency development Structured plans, processes, and activities directing and supporting the personal and professional advancements for suc-cessful performance. (AG  1 CP) Competency Gap The difference between position importance level of the competency and the employee's proficiency level (AG  1 CP) Competency Model A framework that describes the full range of competencies required to be successful in a particular occupation. (AG  1CP) Competitive Professional Development Competitive, functionally tailored, significant developmental opportunities that occur in academic (university) programs, Training-With-Industry (TWI), Short-Term Training, and or planned developmental assignments that have been docu-mented in the respective ACTEDS plans. Competitive Professional Development Program (Civilian) A planned, systematic, and coordinated program of professional development that supports the Army's organizational goals and mission. It encompasses functionally tailored developmental opportunities that occur in academic environments, busi-ness/industrial settings, or in other strategically planned career enhancing developmental assignments that have been iden-tified in an approved CP, Master Training Plan (MTP) or IDP. Training instances may be short- or long-term and funded from various sources (see AR 350  1). Constructive environment The constructive training environment uses computer models, tools, and interfaces to exercise mission command functions. It involves simulated people operating simulated systems in computer-generated environments. Constructive training pro-vides an immersive command/staff training experience for the collective training of MC tasks and processes, and can be conducted by units from platoon to echelons above corps and in a Joint or Combined environment. A Mission Command Training Program Warfighter Exercise is an example of training enabled by constructive simulations. Content validity Evidence of the validity of a test or other selection procedure by a content validity study. For (employee) selection, it should consist of data showing that the content of the selection procedure is representative of important job performance aspects for which the candidates are to be evaluated. (Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures, Section 5  B). Continued service agreement A contract between the employee and Army/DOD Component, signed prior to the commencement of training, education, and professional development activities, requiring the employee to either continue Federal service as determined by the DOD Component or repay training expenses incurred (see DODI 1400.25  V410).  In accordance with 5 USC Section 4108, 5 CFR Section 410.309(c), and AR 690  400, Chapter 410, before assignment to training, Civilian employees, re-gardless of grade and category (for example, APF, NAF, Wage Grade, LN), selected for non-government training in excess of 80 hours, or long-term training or developmental programs in excess of 120 calendar days (Government or Non-Gov-ernment) must sign an agreement to continue to serve in the Department of Defense (DoD) for a period equal to at least three times the length of the training course or program. The obligation period may be longer based on associated training costs. See page 4  5 of the Standard Form 182, Authorization Agreement and Certification of Training.  (DCS, G37/TRV) Core competencies Technical areas of knowledge skill, abilities as well as other characteristics (non-technical competencies such as interper-sonal skills) that cross all specialties that are required by the majority of the positions in an occupational series or career program for the successful execution of critical tasks associated with the duties and responsibilities of positions. (AG  1CP) Course Complete series of instruction units identified by a common title or number. Crewserved weapon A weapon system for which a crew of at least two members is required. Currency The condition of an education/training product containing relevant content that is based on the newest approved doctrine, validated lessons learned, policy and procedures. Defense activity for nontraditional education support Program that offers, by DL, a wide variety of graduate, undergraduate, and vocational courses from leading educational institutions. Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System A 10 USC Excepted Service Intelligence Community (IC) personnel system that is founded in Army policies that support employee performance, career development opportunities, awards and recognition. (Available athttp://www.dami.army.pentagon.mil/site/dcips/about.aspx.) Development Engagement in a set of learning experiences designed to achieve specific goals and long-term objectives. Learning expe-riences often occur in the workplace, and include coaching, mentoring, job rotation, developmental assignments, on-the-job training, and self-study courses (see DODI 1400.25  V410). Developmental assignments (Civilians) Training assignments which provide activities as a way to enhance competencies by giving employees an opportunity to perform duties in other occupational, functional, or organizational elements to enhance the employees understanding of other operations, systems, and relationships. (Available at http://www.civiliantraining.army.mil/professional/pages/de-fault.aspx). Diagnostic test An assessment that measures Soldiers or civilian task competency before training. As it measures performance against a criterion, results focus training on what Soldiers/Army Civilians need to know, and provide links to prescriptive training. As a placement test, it allows for testing out of lessons, modules, or phases of instruction. Displaced equipment training Training on how to operate, maintain, and employ on displaced or cascaded equipment provided to the receiving unit and assigned personnel. Displaced equipment training plan The plan detailing all the training required to support the redistribution of equipment within a MACOM or between MA-COMs as a result of an Army equipment modernization action. The DET plan describes training to be provided when the equipment is transferred to units that have not had previous experience on that equipment. Distributed learning The delivery of standardized individual, collective, and self-development training to Soldiers, Army Civilians, units, and organizations at the right place and time through the use of multiple means and technology. DL may involve student- instructor interaction in real time (for example, via two-way audio/video television) and non-real time (for example, via computer-based training). It may also involve self-paced student instruction without benefit of access to an instructor (for example, Army Learning Management System courses). Diversity The different characteristics and attributes of individuals (see DODD 1020.02, Feb. 5, 2010). Doctrine Fundamental principles, with supporting tactics, techniques, procedures, and terms and symbols, used for the conduct of operations and which the operating force, and elements of the institution Army that directly support operations, guide their actions in support of national objectives. It is authoritative but requires judgment in application (see ADP 1  01). Education A structured process to impart knowledge through teaching and learning to enable or enhance an individuals ability to perform in unknown situations. Instruction with increased knowledge, skill, and/or experience as the desired outcome for the student. This is in contrast to training, where a task or performance basis is used and specific conditions and standards are used to assess individual and unit proficiency (see AR 350  1).  It is also developing an employees general knowledge, capabilities, and character through exposure of learning theories, concepts, and information. Education is traditionally delivered by an accredited institution, and may relate to a current or future mission-related assignment (see DODI 1400.25  V410). Embedded training A function hosted in hardware and/or software, integrated into the overall equipment configuration. Embedded training supports training, assessment, and control of exercises on the operational equipment, with auxiliary equipment and data sources, as necessary. Embedded training, when activated, starts a training session, or overlays the systems normal oper-ational mode, to enter a training and assessment mode. Equal employment opportunity EO Management Directive 715 This Directive provides policy guidance and standards for establishing and maintaining effective affirmative programs of equal employment opportunity under Section 717 of title VII(Part A) and effective affirmative action programs under Section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act (Part B). This Directive also sets forth general reporting requirements. (Availablea t https://www.eeoc.gov/federal/directives/md715.cfm). Equal Employment Opportunity Program A program designed to maintain a continuing affirmative program to promote equal opportunity and to identify and elim-inate discriminatory practices and policies (see 29 CFR 1614.101) Evaluation A systematic, continuous process to appraise the quality (or determine the deficiency), efficiency and effectiveness of a program, process or product. It provides the mechanism for decision makers to assure quality. Execution commands Commands that provide TSS training assets/personnel on an installation or training site in support of MC institutional and unit training. Execution support commands Commands that provide services at any or all levels in order to provide training capabilities to execution commands con-ducting Training using TSS. External evaluation The evaluation process that provides the means to determine if the training and training products received meet the needs of the operational Army and the training institution continues to produce graduates and training products that meet estab-lished job performance requirements. Feedback Information provided to an individual or organization derived from observation, conferences, interviews, focus groups, surveys, and so forth, for use in improving performance and/or to elicit a desired performance. Feedback may be positive or negative in nature. Feedback provided in an education/training environment should enhance transfer of learning. Functional chief representatives An Army Senior Civilian, designated by the Functional Chief (FC), to serve as the principle advisor on Career Program Management issues.  (See Army Policy Memorandum: SAMR  CQ, Subject: Civilian Career Program Management Guid-ance, 21 April 2011). Functional chiefs The Senior Career Program Official whose responsibilities include identifying strategic workforce issues that need to be addressed in the life-cycle management of Civilians within their Career Program. They have enterprise-level responsibility for ensuring the readiness of employees in occupational series and CPs, in support of Army missions. Functional proponent Organization providing oversight for the content and function of their functional or specialty course(s). May or may not be the same as the training proponent. Functional training Training designed to qualify leaders, Soldiers, and DA civilians for assignment to duty positions that require specific functional skills and knowledge. Functional/Technical Training (Civilians) Training that provides study in scientific, professional, technical, mechanical, trade, clerical, fiscal, administrative, or other fields which will improve individual and organizational performance and assist in achieving the Army's mission and per-formance goals. It includes Competitive Professional Development (CPD) programs, as well as functional/technical train-ing within TRADOC and other military schools. (DCS, G37/TRV) Gaming simulation A COTS/GOTS simulation involving real people operating in a semi-immersive environment. Gaming simulations place Soldiers in a central role in order to exercise cognitive, decision making, cultural, foreign language and communication skills. Gap Closure Plan (Strategy) The plan (strategy) to eliminate competency gaps through recruitment of new personnel and/or the development and train-ing of current employees. (AG  1 CP) GoArmyEd GoArmyEd is the Army's virtual gateway to request Tuition Assistance (TA), ACTEDS Funding, and approval of training applications and SF 182s online. This system is a dynamic online portal that automates many of the paper-based processes historically conducted by Army Education Counselors, Career Program Managers, and Training Managers. It is a one-stop location for managing education, training, professional development, as well as managing and resourcing training requests.  GoArmyEd is the authoritative source for the SF 182. (DCS, G37/TRV) Home station training Where the majority of RA training takes place; where individual skills are honed and unit readiness developed. For the RC, it is any pre-mobilization training conducted at a units home station/location, local training area, regional collective training capability, or military installation other than a CTC. Human Capital An inventory of skills, experience, knowledge and capabilities that drive productive labor within an organization's work-force (see DODI 1400.25  V250, November 18, 2008) Human Capital Assessment & Accountability Framework The Human Capital Assessment and Accountability Framework (HCAAF) identifies five human capital systems that to-gether provide a consistent, comprehensive representation of human capital management for the Federal Government. The HCAAF fuses human capital management to the merit system principles-a cornerstone of the American civil service-and other civil service laws, rules, and regulations. Establishment of the HCAAF and its related standards and metrics, provided in this document, fulfills OPMs mandate under the Chief Human Capital Officers Act of 2002 (CHCO Act), as codified at 5 USC 1103(c) and implemented under subpart B of 5 CFR part 250, to design systems and set standards, including appropriate metrics, for assessing the management of human capital by Federal agencies. The regulation at 5 CFR 250.203 establishes requirements for an agency to maintain a current human capital plan and submit to OPM an annual human capital accountability report. The requirements in the regulation are by design congruent with the planning and reporting requirements contained in OMB Circular A  11 and title 31 U.S.C.  The HCAAF outlines an ongoing process of human capital management in every Federal agency - planning and goal-setting, implementation, and evaluating results - using five systems: 1. Strategic Alignment (Planning and Goal-Setting), 2. Leadership and Knowledge Management (Implemen-tation), 3. Results-Oriented Performance Culture (Implementation) , 4. Talent Management (Implementation), and 5. Ac-countability (Evaluating Results). (Available at http://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/human-capital-manage-ment/reference-materials/practitioner%e2%80%99s-guide/systemsstandardsmetrics.pdf). Human Systems Integration Plan Required for ACAT I and II programs. It is the Armys recommended strategy and plan for tracking issues and disposition and is designed to assist the PM in meeting the requirements of DODI 5000.02 for all programs. It serves as a planning and management tool and an audit trail to identify tasks, analyses, trade-offs, and decisions that must be made in order to address HSI issues during concept development, system development, and the acquisition process. Data from the Human Systems Integration Plan (for example, HSI issues and manpower, personnel, and training constraints) will be used in developing requirements documents, test plans, and contractual documents. Importance Level of Position Competencies The relative significance or weight that a given competency has in the successful execution of critical tasks in a position. (AG  1 CP) Inactive duty training Authorized regularly scheduled unit training assemblies, or equivalent training periods performed by RC Soldiers who are not in an active duty or active for duty status. Individual Developmental Plan A document used to record short- and long-range career goals, the specific competencies, knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to meet current objectives, training, education, and other professional development strategies used to develop the desired competencies. In conjunction with a performance assistance plan, the IDP assists in making employee perfor-mance more effective in present or future positions and is used for employees below the executive level (see DODI 1400.25  V410). Individual training plan A document prepared for each enlisted, warrant officer MOS and commissioned officer occupational specialty code and each functional or specialty training program that describes the overall plan to satisfy training requirements and documents the long range training strategy. Institutional Army Those organizations and activities that generate and sustain trained, ready, and available forces to meet the requirements of the National Military Strategy and support the geographic CCDRs in the performance of the full spectrum of military operations. Administer executive responsibilities in accordance with public law. Institutional training Institutional training domain  The Armys institutional training and education system, which primarily includes training base centers and schools that provide initial training and subsequent professional military education for Soldiers, military leaders, and Army Civilians (see ADP 7  0). Interactive multimedia instruction The interactive multimedia instruction is a group of computer-based training and support products. This includes source materials that are commonly used in interactive multimedia instruction products, electronic products used for the delivery of or supporting the delivery of instruction, and software management tools used to support instructional programs. The interactive multimedia instruction products include: computer aided instruction, computer managed instruction, Interactive Courseware, electronic publications, electronic testing, electronic guides and simulations. Internal evaluation The evaluation process that provides the means to determine whether the training and training development efforts have accomplished what was intended. It determines if the objectives of the training have been met and verifies the effective use of the S process to meet minimum essential analysis, design, development, implementation and evaluation require-ments. Interservice school or course School or course used by two or more services or agencies administered by a coordinating service or agency, presenting a curriculum developed in coordination with the participating (using) Services. Key assignments/positions Positions that represent windows of opportunities to complete diverse assignments across multiple echelons. The sequence of positions is not as important as mastering critical skills and gaining experience before the next stage of career develop-ment (see DODI 1400.25  V410). Leader book A tool for recording and tracking Soldier proficiency on mission oriented tasks. Leader Development Leader development is the deliberate, continuous, and progressive process - founded in the Army Ethic  that develops Soldiers and Army Civilians into competent, committed professional leaders of character. Leaders are developed through the career-long synthesis of the training, education, and experiences acquired through opportunities in the institutional, operational, and self-development domains. Leader development is inclusive of all cohorts and components, beginning prior to accession and continuing until the leader leaves service  (see Army Leader Development Program, DA Pam 350  58 and this regulation). Leader training Leader training is the expansion of basic Soldier skills that qualifies Soldiers to lead other Soldiers. Learning Cognitive and/or physical process where a person assimilates information, and temporarily or permanently acquires or improves skills, knowledge, behaviors, and/or attitudes (see DODI 1400.25  410). Learning objectives, terminal Specifies what students should know or be able to do at the end of the course that they didn't know or couldnt do before.  (AG  1CP) Licensing The process by which a government agency (local) grants permission to an individual to engage in a given occupation upon finding the applicant has attained the minimum degree of competency required to engage in that occupation. (AG  1 CP/G  3/5/7) Life cycle Career Management The progression in a continuum of manageable steps and processes that involve six basic areas of an employee's life cycle career that includes Structure, Acquire, Develop, Distribute, Sustain and Transition. Lifelong Learning Individual lifelong choice to actively and overtly pursue knowledge, the comprehension of ideas, and the expansion of depth in any area to progress beyond a known state of development and competency (see ADRP 6  22). Live training Real people operating real equipment. Live, Virtual, Constructive  Integrating Architecture LVCIntegrating Architecture is the Armys Program of Record using progressive versions, which provides the protocols, standards & interfaces to facilitate interoperability of currently dissimilar TADSS supporting all four Army training envi-ronments so that they can stimulate Mission Command Systems. Longterm training Training to which an employee is assigned for more than 120 consecutive days, on a full-time basis.  The assignment may be at either a government or non-government facility and may include both formal and training programs and strategically planned career assignments. LTT enables employees to stay abreast of changes and innovations in their occupational fields, learn and/or develop/improve competencies needed in current positions and meet emerging Army requirements.  Attend-ance at LTT event must have a demonstrated training purpose and must be documented in each respective Career Program, MTP or IDP (see AR 350  1). Mandatory training (HQDA mandatory training) Mandatory training requirements are limited to those subject areas directed by law, DOD and HQDA (May be applicable to Unit, Institutions and Civilians; and may be applicable to all persons or selected persons). Materiel developer The materiel develop is the research, development and acquisition (RDA) command, agency, or office assigned responsi-bility for the system under development or being acquired. The term may be used generically to refer to the RDA commu-nity in the materiel acquisition process (counterpart to the generic use of CAPDEV. Mentorship The voluntary developmental relationship that exists between a person of greater experience and a person of lesser expe-rience that is characterized by mutual trust and respect (see ADRP 6  22). Mission commander Any tenant or habitual user of TSS assets on an installation. Mission essential task A MET is a collective task on which an organization trains to be proficient in its designed capabilities or assigned mission. A METL is a tailored group of METs. Mission essential task list A METL reflects the doctrinal functions/designed capabilities for a particular type of unit supporting unified land opera-tions. Standard METLs are those METLs that are directed and approved by the DCS, G  3/5/7 through TRADOC processes for like type units from Theater Army down through Company level organizations, to enable commanders to more accu-rately and objectively build and assess training readiness, to ensure that like units are reporting readiness, and to ensure that like units are reporting readiness on the same. Mission readiness exercise A command and staff-level command post exercise conducted as a culminating training event for deploying RA and RC Divisions and Corps with subordinate brigade-level headquarters. The mission readiness exercise can be conducted at home station or at an alternate site. The mission readiness exercise begins at STARTEX (Day One for the simulation supported exercise) at the mission readiness exercise site and concludes at ENDEX for the simulation supported exercise at the mission readiness exercise location. Time devoted to the MCTP Seminar is not part of the mission readiness exercise although mission readiness exercise themes may be addressed during the Seminar. Mission rehearsal exercise A mission-tailored training and rehearsal exercise for deploying units, conducted to reinforce a commanders vision and intent, and expose the unit to conditions approximating those in the theater of employment. The mission rehearsal exercise is conducted at a maneuver CTC and may be embedded in a mission readiness exercise for the higher headquarters (that is, division or corps). The mission rehearsal exercise begins with the first day of reception, staging, onward movement and integration (building combat power) at the MTC and ends when the unit main body has cleared the MTC and returned to home station. Time devoted to the leader training program is not part of the MRE. Mobility Program A formal program, as a part of a DoD Component workforce development strategy, that provides for planned change of permanent duty station of Civilian personnel within the same or another DOD Component that may involve relocation without reduction in grade (see DODI 1400.25  V410). Motionbased simulation facility A building used to house various simulators used to train crews in weapons systems and to improve crew proficiency. A simulator is a device whose control inputs duplicate the controls of a weapon or vehicle. Facility is characterized by large bay areas with high ceilings and clear span to accommodate moving modules that replicate or stimulate the sense of actual operations in the air or over terrain. Usually, these facility types require separate hydraulic machinery rooms with rated firewalls and fire suppression/alarm systems and special footing pads to accommodate high ground pressure loading and stress. Examples of the devices located in these type of facilities include most flight or combat mission simulators (for example, AH  64), or combat vehicle driver (for example, M1 driver) simulators. New equipment New or improved equipment reintroduced into the Army. New equipment applies to developed, product improved, and non-development items. New equipment training The identification of personnel, training, TADSS, and the initial transfer of knowledge gained through equipment devel-opment from the MATDEV/provider to the trainer, user, and supporter. New equipment training plan A document that outlines milestones and other key data elements for training to support new equipment training. New equipment training team A team of experts organized to conduct training of designated units or personnel on the operation and logistics support of new equipment at designated locations. Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development System NCOPDS prepares noncommissioned officers to lead and train Soldiers who work and fight under their supervision, and to assist their leaders in executing unit missions. This ensures NCOs have the appropriate skills and knowledge required before assuming the duties and responsibilities of the next higher grade. NCOPDS is linked to promotion to SGT, SSG, SFC, MSG, and SGM. Nonmotionbased simulation facility A building used to house various simulators used to train crews in weapons systems and to improve crew proficiency. A simulator is a device whose control inputs duplicate the controls of a weapon or vehicle. Similar in functional and spatial relationships to 17210, Simulator Building (Motion-Based), except that facilities in this category do not require special motion base accommodations for large hydraulic pumps or special footing pads to accommodate high ground pressure loading. Examples of devices supported by this category are Conduct of Fire Trainers or modules that comprise the Com-bined Arms Tactical Trainers family. Nonresident training Individual training distributed to students for completion without the presence of an on-site instructor/facilitator, small group leader or otherwise designated trainer. NonTechnical Competency Observable and measurable soft skills that are exhibited by individuals as behaviors in the execution of their duties such as critical thinking, interpersonal skills, problem solving. (AG  1 CP) Officer Education system The OES prepares Officers and WOs for increased responsibilities and successful performance at the next higher level. It provides pre-commissioning, branch, functional area, and leader-development training that prepares officers to lead pla-toon, company, battalion, and higher level organizations. One Army School System Need to add the definition  a set of processes to improve execution of OASS. Orientation course Course that introduces the student to a particular technique or area of knowledge. Professional Military Education PME is a progressive education system that prepares leaders for increased responsibilities and successful performance at the next higher level by developing the key knowledge, skills, and attributes they require to operate successfully at that level in any environment. PME is linked to promotions, future assignments, career management models, and applies to all officers. Quality assurance Provides the commander assurance that the organization is efficiently and effectively meeting its mission requirements and ensures controls are in place to effect quality performance across the command. It employs quality control, assessment processes and statistical measurements to assess organizational effectiveness, efficiency and economy, to ensure all pro-grams, products and processes have been fully integrated across the DOTMLPF, and to ensure organization/program/ process improvements Quality control The day-to-day actions taken to ensure a program, product or processes meet applicable specifications and standards. Quick Reaction capability The QRC development process, which includes non-standard and/or un-programmed capabilities, is an acquisition re-sponse to a validated urgent need, a program specifically designated by the milestone decision authority to receive high priority for resources, facilities, and expedited staffing. DODI 5000.02 targets a QRC as being fielded in less than 2 years and the total cost must be below the cost thresholds of ACAT I and IA programs. Reclassification training Training intended to qualify an individual in a new MOS. Upon satisfactory completion of the training the new MOS will be awarded to the Soldier and designated as the Primary MOS. Regular Army The RA is the Armys active duty component and consists of: (1) persons whose continuous service on active duty in both peace and war is contemplated by law; (2) retired members of the Regular Army; and (3) the professors, directors of admissions, and cadets of the United States Military Academy. Relevancy The condition of education/training presenting learning material that is essential to the performance of tasks by Soldiers or Army units. Sometime referred to in education communities as authenticity. Requirementsbased Training Training and development defined within one of these competency-based categories - (1) Performance Enhancement - To close competency gaps to improve job performance, (2) Meet New Position Requirements - Driven by new or changes in mission that require the development of new competencies required by the job, (3) Career Progression - Match Army's requirements with employee career goals, to develop competencies to facilitate career progression, and/or, (4) Manda-tory/Foundational - Meet professional/technical requirements/credentialing of positions and/or Army's standards/guidance.  (AG  1 CP and G  3/5/7) Reserve component training institutions The generic name which applies to all schools, academies, and centers operated by the RC to train individuals. Reserve Components The RC include members of: (1) the Army National Guard; (2) the Army National Guard of the United States; and (3) the U.S. Army Reserve. Resident training Training presented, managed, and controlled by an on-site instructor or facilitator, small group leader, or otherwise desig-nated trainer. Retraining Development designed to prepare an individual for a different occupation, address an individuals skills obsolescence in the current position, or to prepare an individual for a different occupation in the same agency, another Government agency, or the private sector. (DODI 1400.25  V410) Rotational Assignments An opportunity to perform varied practical and career-enhancing experiences within or outside of an employee's current functional area. (AG  1(CP)) Schooling Formal instruction of individuals at military or DA Civilian educational institutions. SelfAssessment (Civilians) Helps you to determine how to use your talent and skills and continue to grow; identify and focus on preparation needed for a successful career; and identify and close gaps in your training and learning. (www.hru.gov) Selfassessment: education/training institution The application of internal evaluation by an Army education/training institution. The institution compares itself against the approved, published accreditation standards. It is a formal opportunity for an institution to examine itself critically; assess and document its strengths and weaknesses; and to develop plans that sustain strengths, improve weaknesses and improve its ability to accomplish its missions. It is an essential tool for an organization seeking continuous improvement. It also provides the opportunity to share the institutions improved procedures with other education/training institutions. A formal self-assessment results in documentation that an accreditation team can use for preparation and conduct of the formal accreditation evaluation. SelfDevelopment A planned, continuous, lifelong process individual leaders use to enhance their competencies and potential for progres-sively more complex and higher-level assignments. (ADRP 6  22) Selfdevelopment training Self-development is planned, goal-oriented learning that reinforces and expands the depth and breadth of an individuals knowledge base, self-awareness, and situational awareness. Self-development will complement what you have learned in the classroom and on the job, enhance your professional competence, and help you meet your objectives. There are three types of self-development: structured, guided, and personal. Senior commander Senior Army leadership designates the senior commander. The senior commander is usually the senior commander residing on the installation. The senior commanders responsibilities are to: senior rate the garrison commander; act as principal customer advocate to the garrison commander; serve as the senior Army representative to the surrounding community; determine priorities for installation resourcing and services; provide installation management services that are the respon-sibility of the senior mission activity; oversee the implementation of force protection; determine priorities for training and training support services, mission support, MCA projects, well- being program, and force protection; approve installation-level policies for Soldiers in accordance with respective Army Regulations; and, approve the installation master plan. Senior Enterprise Talent Management The program prepares participants for positions of greater responsibility through advanced senior-level educational and developmental experiences. Included in the SETM program are opportunities in the Enterprise Placement Program, De-velopmental Experiences, Senior Service College, and the Defense Senior Leader Development Program. Series (occupational) A subdivision of an occupational group or job family consisting of positions similar as to specialized line of work and qualification requirements. Series are designated by a title and number such as the Accounting Series, 0510; the Secretary Series, 0318; the Microbiology Series, 0403. (See Introduction to the Position Classification Standards, TS  134, July 1995). Shortterm training  (Army Civilians) Training of 120 calendar days or less. Training instances may include, but are not limited to, professional workshops, seminars and college/university courses. Attendance at workshops and seminars must have a demonstrated training pur-pose and must be documented in each respective Career Program, MTP or IDP. (see AR 350  1). Small group instruction The means of delivering training which places the responsibility for learning on the Soldier through participation in small groups led by small group leaders who serve as role models and mentors throughout the course. This instruction uses small group processes, methods, and techniques to stimulate learning. Soldier An enlisted member, warrant officer, or commissioned officer in the Army. Soldier training publication A training publication that contains critical tasks and other information used to train all Army Soldiers to the same stand-ards. It provides guidance on the conduct of individual Soldier training in the unit and aids all Soldiers in the training of critical tasks. Soldiers manual A MOS-specific Soldier training publication that contains task summaries for the critical tasks in each skill level of a MOS. These task summaries identify for the trainers and Soldiers the conditions under which the task must be performed, the required standards, and the performance measures for evaluating the Soldiers performance. Special qualification identifier Digit added to the specialty or MOS identifying special qualifications needed for performance of a specific type military activity. Specialty Professional military career field for training, utilization, and development of commissioned officers. Strategic Goal or Strategic Intent A statement of aim or purpose included in the strategic plan. In a performance/budget annual performance plan, strategic goals should be used to group multiple program outcome goals. Each program outcome goal should relate to the strategic goals or objectives and their performance measures [(OMB Circular No. A  11 (2010)] Strategic Human Capital Management The alignment of human capital strategies with agency mission, goals, and objectives through analysis, planning, invest-ment, and management of human capital programs. Human capital planning is the method by which an agency designs a coherent framework of human capital policies, programs, and practices to achieve a shared vision integrated with the agencys strategic plan. Implementation of the strategic human capital plan is a key step in an agencys progress to build a highly effective, performance-based organization by recruiting, acquiring, motivating, and rewarding a high-performing, top quality workforce. The plan becomes the roadmap for continuous improvement and the framework for transforming the culture and operations of the agency. Structure and manning decision review An annual process that compares the total Army individual training seat requirements against the training capability of a given TASS school or training battalion. The SMDR culminates in validating the individual training seat requirements for the first 3 years of the program objective memorandum. Structured Selfdevelopment training Structured self-development - Required learning that continues throughout your career and is closely linked to and syn-chronized with classroom and on-the-job learning. Guided self-development - Recommended but optional learning that will help keep you prepared for changing technical, functional, and leadership responsibilities throughout your career. Personal self-development - Self-initiated learning where you define the objective, pace, and process. Student An individual formally enrolled in any course of instruction. Subcourse (for correspondence courses) Basic unit of instruction in an Army correspondence course. A grouping of lessons in the course. Synonymous for module. Supported commands Command responsible for executing operational and/or institutional training and for the readiness of Soldiers and units assigned. Sustainment training Individual and collective training conducted in the unit or resident schools, units, and organizations to ensure continued expertise on the operations, employment, and logistics support of fielded systems or equipment. System training plan The master training plan for a new system. It outlines the development of the total training strategy for integrating a new system into the training base and gaining units; plans for all necessary training support, training products, and courses; and sets milestones to ensure the accomplishment of the training strategy. Tactical engagement simulation training system An advanced collective training methodology supported by a family of TADSS used in free-play, force-on-force, field training exercises. The tactical engagement simulation training system consists of three subsystems: the simulator subsys-tem which includes TADSS and supporting procedures that simulate casualty-producing effects of weapons in real time; the control subsystem which includes a staff of trained observer-controllers who referee, ensure realism, record events, and report actions observed through after action reports and unit take home packages; and the management subsystem which includes activities and computers to plan, schedule, conduct, and evaluate the training of battle-focused METL tasks to standard. This live simulation training system includes unique curriculum, specially trained military and civilian instruc-tors, and life cycle contractor support personnel world-wide. Talent Management System A set of processes that promotes having quality people with appropriate competencies performing mission-critical activi-ties such as leadership. (See DODI 1430.16, November 19, 2009, Growing Civilian Leaders.) Technical Competency (Civilians) Observable and measurable knowledge and abilities that are specific to a technical area such as digital network exploitation analysis, computer programming, etc. (AG  1 CP) The Army School System Fully accredited and integrated RA, ARNG, and USAR schools that provide standard resident and nonresident (DL) train-ing and education for the Army. The Army School System Course A course designed to train the same MOS/AOC skill level or AOC, LIC, SQI, or SI throughout the Army. The course ensures standardization by training all critical tasks to task-performance standard. It may be trained at different sites and may involve use of different media and methods to train the various phases, modules, or lessons Total package fielding Total package fielding is the Armys standard materiel fielding process. Total package fielding integrates all relevant factors before, during, and after fielding to ensure that force modernization is supportable and executable (see AR 71  9). Trainers guide A separate document usually published as part of a STP that contains an MOSTraining Plan. It lists critical tasks to be trained in a specific MOS by duty position and subject area. Training A structured process designed to increase the capability of individuals or units to perform specified tasks or skills in known situations. Process of providing for and making available to an employee, and placing or enrolling the employee in, a planned, prepared, and coordinated program, course, curriculum, subject, system, or routine of instruction or education, in scientific, professional, technical, mechanical, trade, clerical, fiscal, administrative, or other fields that will improve indi-vidual and organizational performance and assist in achieving the agencys mission and performance goals. (See DODI 1400.25  V410.) Training Agreement A written contract between an employee and the DOD Component. The contract outlines intensive training to satisfy all or part of the experience required by qualification standards, without regard to time-in-grade requirements. (See DODI 1400.25  V410.) Training and readiness oversight The authority CCDRs may exercise over assigned RC forces when not on active duty or when on ADT. This authority includes: (1) Providing guidance to Service component commanders on operational requirements and priorities to be ad-dressed in military department training and readiness programs. (2) Commenting on Service component program recom-mendations and budget requests. (3) Coordinating and approving participation by assigned RC forces in Joint exercises and other Joint training when on ADT or performing IDT. (4) Obtaining and reviewing readiness and inspection reports on assigned RC forces. (5) Coordinating and reviewing mobilization plans (including post-mobilization training activities and deployability validation procedures) developed for assigned RC forces. Training developer The TNGDEV is the Army agency or individual that determines requirements for a systems training subsystem and for-mulates, develops, and documents associated training concepts, strategies, plans, and required training support. In accord-ance with AR 71  9 is a subset of and included within capability developer; serves as the users representative during development and acquisition of a systems training subsystem. Training development The process of developing, integrating, prioritizing, resourcing and providing quality control/quality assurance of the Armys training and education concepts, strategies and products to support the Armys training and education of Regular Army and Reserve component Soldiers, Civilians, and units across the institutional, self-development and operational training domains. Training Law/Policy (Sec. 302) Describes that the head of each agency will: (a) foster employee self-development by creating a work environment in which self-development is encouraged, by assuring that opportunities for training and self-study materials are reasonably available where the employee is stationed, and by recognizing self-initiated improvement in performance; (b) provide training for employees without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, sex, or other factors unrelated to the need for training; (c) establish and make full use of agency facilities for training employees; (d) extend agency training programs to employees of other agencies (including agencies and portions of agencies excepted by Section 4102(a) of Title 5, United States Code) and assign the employees to interagency training whenever this will result in better training, improved service, or Savings to the Government; (d) establish interagency training facilities in areas of substantive competence as arranged by the Office of Personnel Management; and, (f) use non-Government training resources as appropriate. (Sec. 302 amended by EO 12107, Sec. 302, Dec. 28, 1978, 44 FR 1055, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 264) (Source:  http://www.opm.gov/hrd/lead/policy/eo11348.asp). Training Priorities (Civilians) A priority that must be specified for all types of formal training. Training that is not prioritized may not be conducted. Criteria for determining the appropriate priority for assigning is as follows: a. Priority I - Training that is typically a condition of employment, must be successfully completed within a specified time period, and meets one or more of the following criteria: (1) Employee must have for acceptable performance. (2) Training is essential for mission accomplishment. (3) Training is mandated by higher authority (law or DOD) or is required for certification, health or safety reasons. (4) Training is mandated by the ASA (M&RA) as an ACTEDS leader development core course. (5) Intern training is essential and functional. b. Priority II - Training must be needed for effective performance and to improve the quality of mission accomplishment. It is recommended that training mandated or specified in an approved training plan for enhancement of performance re-sulting in the improvement in the quality of mission accomplishment should be completed within a specified time period. c. Priority III - This training is recommended for all individuals to improve or enhance competencies and/or skills needed on the job. Note. The above referenced priorities should be used for all training, to include ACTEDS Universal and Com-petitive Development training, as well as occupational and functional skill training. Universal training provides standard-ized competencies across an occupational area to all individuals who have similar duties and responsibilities. NOTE: Competitive Professional Development (CPD) training and professional developmental opportunities for which individu-als are competitively selected usually are Priority II or III. Training proponent Army organization or agency assigned primary responsibility to analyze, design, develop, implement, and evaluate train-ing, instructional materials, and training support products related to its doctrinal, combat, or logistical training responsi-bility and that is presented at one or more Army schools or training centers. Training requirements analysis system The management system that provides for the documentation of training and resource requirements in time to inject them into resource acquisition systems. The TRAS uses three types of documents: individual learning plan, course administra-tive data, and programs of instruction. Training resource arbitration panel HQDA action group chaired by an appointee from the ODCS, G  3/5/7 to manage the Army execution year individual training program. Training support package A package integrating various training products necessary to train one or more critical tasks. Some components are: a course management plan, lessons plans, training products of an appropriate media mix, and all other materials needed to conduct the training. Training Support System The TSS is the system of systems that provides networked, integrated, interoperable training support capabilities that are necessary to enable operationally-relevant, JIIM training for Soldiers, units, and DA Civilians anytime, anywhere. Training with industry TWI is a non-degree producing program designed to provide training and/or skills in best business procedures and practices not available through existing military or advanced civilian schooling programs for identifiable DoD requirements. NOTE: in accordance with DODI 1322.06 Fellowships, Scholarships, TWI, and Grants for DOD Personnel, Army policy is being development to clarify DOD/Army criteria, processes, and other requirements for using this source (see DODI 1400.24  V410). U.S. Army Reserve The USAR includes all Reserves of the Army who are not members of the Army National Guard of the United States. Uniform Guidelines for Employee Selection Procedures (1978) A uniform set of principles adopted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Office of Personnel Management, Department of Justice, and Department of Labor to govern use of employee selection procedures in the public and private sectors consistent with applicable legal standards and recognized validation standards. Section 300.103 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations requires that the employee selection procedures of Federal agencies must meet UGESP standards in Federal Register 38290 (see DODI 1400.25-v250, November 18, 2008). Virtual simulation Simulation involving real people operating simulated systems. Virtual simulations inject humans-in-the-loop in a central role by exercising motor control skills, decision skills, or communication skills. Warrant officer Officer in the ranks of WO1 through CW5. Workforce Planning The systematic process for identifying and addressing the competency gaps between the workforce of today and the human capital needs of tomorrow.  (AG  1 CP) Section III Special Abbreviations and Terms This section contains no entries.   